The swallows perched...
Louis Couperus
edition H.T.M.  van Vliet, J.B.  Robert M. Boelhouwer and Cora
The Weij
source
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched... (eds. H.T.M. van Vliet, J. B. Robert M. Boelhouwer and Cora van der Weij).  Publisher L. J.  Veen, Amsterdam / Antwerp 1993
For accountability: http://www.dbnl.org/tekst/coup002zwal02_01/colofon.htm
© 2009 dbnl / H.T.M.  van Vliet / J.B.  Robert / M. Boelhouwer / Cora van der
Weij
7
Small romans
I
I am convinced that within not too long a time, say, within a century, no novels will be written more.  No novels will be more
to be written, since there is no more novels will be read, not because
no novelists will exist anymore, because even a long time after that no
novels will be written, novelists will be born: one
novelist is born and the genus will continue to live on, while the novel itself will be already dead.
So I predict to you;  think again about a century to me!
No, no novels read more.  If I see around me in the circle
from family and friends, I'm considered the novel as a negligible quantity.
My family even read my novels are not;  my acquaintances told me vaguely, with
slapping handshake, during the last years already:
- So... you have again written a novel...?
And there was a well affable, good-natured beklaging in their weary voice...
My friend realized it reads novels, not even in Italian;  read my wife
Nor never more novels;  she reads it as mine by, out of courtesy and... Les Trois Mousquetaires (never anything else) as she is going through a sleepless night and I...
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
8
Oh, reader, I read even my own novels, as I wrote them, I read them no longer, and others' novels I did not even pick up!!
And question now look who reads novels... and share mead me, but draw from it
patented critics who do it, mechanically, from the nature of their métier...
And your conclusion will be, I believe, a Great Zero!
The novel is not read, and within a century, the novel will no longer
written...
But...
There will always be, at least another hundred years, novelists are born and they
will write, they will pour out like in other forms than that of the novel, very modern, yet molded shapes maybe...
And long, long time will still lurking germs of the novel in the pride
himself: working spirit of novelists...
So as they germinate in the mind of your feuilletonist, who wants no novels
write.
They germinate, they shoot out, like tender green plants weeds...
I see them on the fields of my mind, and as I would say, look, a
violet... look, an anemone... I say:
- Look... a novel!
But the flower is not the lush forest...
I pick the flower, anemone or violet, sometimes reader, reader, offer you, and it will be one of the Little Novels.
Little Novels, which are no bigger than a few pages;  Little Novels,
which the Great Romans had to be...
If I wrote novels...
If I were not convinced that soon the"novel"as a genre too old-fashioned, would be thrown overboard, even by the novelist...
* * *
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
9
Small Romans...
Who novelist was born, she sees again and again around him, germinate on
The fields of his mind, in the fields of Life.
I want you present a pick, a Kleinen Roman...
* * *
It was in an Italian city, which I will not mention.  It is a shrine of art, they are a wealth of antique and Renaissance splendours, and her palaces as
Fortress event, built with hewn stones in rock facets.  In an animal palaces, historical home of art, full splendor of Renaissance and antiquity, full of
memorable events of history that city itself, lived a prince.
He was poor.
He lived in his palace historiesch with his mother, proud woman, with his
brothers, cousins, some clerks...
He was poor.
The great gate of the palace was always closed.  There were never parties and
ricevimenti.  The prince had no cars, no cars even.
He had nothing but his historiesch palace, its antique furniture and unsaleable treasures, and he lived life, between his parazieten-relatives,
a very modest, simple man, his heart full of the melancholy to the
decay of earthly greatness, powerless, to whom melancholy is a goal
office to provide.
He was a most loving man.
He was a gentleman, a gentleman from head to toe;  He was a good son to his
proud mother;  He was proud of his poverty, a magnanimous and generous brother and kinsman;  a gentle master who operated him.
Everybody loved him.
In the city he knew everyone and everyone loved him with a deep rooting
pity for the animal decay princely GLOBAL
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
10
theory, which had been the glory of the city.
He was gentle, generous, gentle, courteous, tender, never rude, helpful, sensitive to art and beauty.
He was a noble man, so if one finds little more in our modern times
of selfishness and arrivisme...
A woman met him, and loved him.
She was a Polish princess;  her birth was almost royal and because her
family the Russian Government was devoted, was this estimate and wealthy
left: whole provinces were the young princess dowry.
She was not pretty, but she was still amiable appearance and she was graceful, even though they had a lack of leg that made her limp here.
She was young, she was sensitive to art and beauty, she was gentle, generous, gentle, courteous;  it was a rare noble nature, with a pure and tender heart.
She loved the poor prince.
The two families, almost evenboortig, discussed a possible marriage: the young
Princess need to marry money, and though her family might have to
regal relationships of a higher nobility than the prince, the prince still belonged to
Italy's first families.
Since the prince seemed to hesitate, -the princess thought of pride, she -was the one who asked him to marry, telling him that she loved him, that she not him
Another reason for the wedding also need to ask, and she added:
- Let me hope that if you are my husband, me too thou shalt love, if I.
He was agitated, he assumed.
They married.
To marriage was the city of joy, after marriage seemed old,
to revive historic palace from his dusty death, to re Itteren of
party lights, there was celebration and ricevimento, there were flowers and banquets, there
Was in geluk...
Shortly...
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
11
* * *
Heel Korten tijd...
Scarcely a few weeks...
The prince could not get to love his wife.
Those who adored him, those who could have a royal wedding, but her
poor Italian Chen prince had married, she who had given new glory to the
dilapidated grandeur, she was in the palace as an intruder.
Because he did not love her;  he simply could not get to love her...
He hated her...
He hated her so that he was rude to her.  He was clumsy.  He mocked her for her lame foot.  He blamed her for having married him,
impossible for all sorts of reasons, which he invented sataniesch and hurled her into her face.
The suffering that this woman must have made by, O reader, is not it
touching theme for a psycho logical, modernist novel...?
He hated her.
* * *
He hated her so that he who as a young man had lived quietly and silently, venal
women sought not only that, but she received with bad friends and partied with them in his palace...
The princess, in her room, heard the gilkreten of the orgy.
Oh, reader of the novel, watching at her, see her to torture!  Remember,
they had everything may require a woman in this world except love
her husband, who hated her, whom she loved.
One night - it was in the Opera - she entered into her lodge with a friend.
About her flat on her lodge in another lodge, the prince sat with three of his
Masters.
The whole room looked from one to the other lodge.
- Want to go?  whispered the friend to the princess.
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
12
She smiled and said:
- Yes.  I stay.
She stayed the whole evening.  About her in his box, was the prince among his three mistresses, he paid with the money of the princess, the whole evening, and the loud laughter of wenches, bevonkeld jeweled, sounded to the ears
Princess.
And this soul riddle was: he who was always there for everybody nobleman, gentleman, noble, courteous, gentle, mild, tender... for his wife, who adored him, which he hated, and only for his wife, a  was cad.
He was a cad for her alone.
He remained for all the others courteous gentle, noble nobleman...
* * *
The day after the night at the opera received the princess a boy in her bedroom
Englishmen painter.  The young Englishman had the princess already loved for
her marriage: he, civil status, had never thought of a marriage;  she had never had anyone else love than the prince.
The princess had within the English painter in her room, before the eyes of
the prince.
- Wien you receive here, in your room, in my palace, ma'am?  asked the prince.
She said cool, but it broke her heart:
- My lover.
The Englishman looked solid at the Prince.
The prince bowed, sarkastiesch;  he said:
- Oh!  - It is excellent: pardon my indiscretion!
And his laugh hate weêrklonk along the stairways and halls.
* * *
The princess went abroad with the English painter.  And her family,
her friends, her acquaintances, her research
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
13
servants and attendants, all have approved what she did.  They said:
- She has suffered too much: the Englishman has its very sweet...
But she...
She continued to love the prince.
The prince died suddenly.
For the palace, unexpectedly, the princess rose from her car.  She was in
deep mourning;  a lackey carried a wreath Immensen.
- Where is it?  she asked the suisse.
They led her into the Chapelle-ardente.  There, on the bier, his mother,
were his brothers and cousins, and princess among the gloor of candles and
Pine song of the discourse of priests saw him... kill...
And she fell for his body, unable to control herself, and said:
- O, Philip!  Or, Philip!  Or, Philip!
Her lips squeezed his praying, cold hands.
One had her, almost violently, erect.  They carried her from fainting
smart heen...
* * *
The princess married the English painter, and all felt good, because the
painter loved her very much, and said:
- She has suffered too much;  His love is likely to comfort her...
His love ever given her comfort?
I ask myself, if I go along the historic palace, which is now the ancient, proud mother, brothers, cousins ​​eat the bread of charity from the hands of the woman who
their son, brother and kinsman - a noble man for all except
Hair - hate as a cad could treat...
And remember, this small Roman a Roman Grooten could be.
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
14
II
They were called Alwine and Dorothée, and they had come to Nice from Rostock.  Alwine was separated from her husband, who had been an accountant at a banking house,
and she was able to obtain that her three children to her former were far: the man did not want to oppose it, because he himself, always in the office, not
knew what to do with the kids and had won himself.
The children were named Elsa, Willy and Kätchen and were thirteen, twelve and six years.
Alwine was already in his thirties, Dorothée, hardly was in his twenties.  The two
sisters looked at each other;  they seemed no different than two quiet Germanic women of the civilian middle-class, with calm faces blonde, in her
a Germanic braid around the head wound, both dressed in simple
dark tailor-suits and linen blouses.
The three children were lovely children.  Elsa was a sweet, gentle, a bit
spindly grown girl;  Willy turbulent but real boy;  was Kätchen
a dear, like a little Red Riding Hood in her red tippet and red, closely enclosing the blond hair, wool kaproentje, and they were brought up all three well.
They had a kind and gentle children's voices and the girls were a little kniks
as they saluted, an obeisance tje, and Willy bowed deeply than his boy's back, as if he were a small dansmeestertje.
Alwine, who had after the divorce, a sum of four thousand marks was permitted,
After an interview with Dorothée, decided to go to Nice.  It was still early,
September.  The great warehouses were closed, the hotels also.  The city awoke
barely out of her long summer siesta.  Alwine, Dorothée and the kids got off
in a hôtel at the station.  And the next morning, all five accumulated in a fiacre
- A beautiful blond little band together, especially for the kids - they drove around to look for an apartment meublé.
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
15
They had seen some apartments that were its too small and too expensive.  they
reason still around and around and the kids had pleasure in the trip.  The gate of a villa they saw apartment meublé;  the two women alighted;  the
children, blond nice little tribe in the cart and the driver remained joked with them;  Little Red Riding Hood was on the box and rode beside him.
The villa belonged to an old French countess;  the countess inhabited one
floor, the top one.  She had earlier with her married children, occupied the whole villa.  She had known much sorrow, her daughters died;  the
finances went bad.  However, she could not sell her villa because it was attached to the house.  They rented now, Furnished, because it was more advantageous, the
two other apartments.
The old countess saw from her balcony still hold the carriage, get the women.
In a sunbeam, the children in the fiacre were the sweetest group: lokjes blonde, white faces, sweet playful ways.  The two women appeared
Quiet, calm, slightly Civil and looked where they had to call.
The countess had no caretaker anymore.
- Marie, the countess called to the old cook, her only maid who was just trying to make the bed of her mistress.  There are ladies... definitely for the
apartment!  Go to meet her soon: they seek.
The countess was a bit nervous, to her apartment.  The first floor of the
Villa, rez-de-chaussée, was very well leased to a painter, but the second floor was empty, and was last winter even remained empty.  Gemeubeleerde
apartments to rent in Nice is difficult, a chance.  Sometimes a zoo
apartment at once, though, hired well in September, to wealthy Russians,
Americans who do not like the hôtel life.  Sometimes there is even no one to
look, to the despair of the landlord.
- Yes, Madame la Comtesse, the cook came back;  those ladies come
the apartment.  I've already let up.
The old countess, dignified lady, black woolen cloth over unless
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
16
rendered back, went down the stairs to the middle floor.  They kindly greeted the two ladies, and she heard once that they were"of Allemandes.  They did not 'les Allemands;  in war, forty years ago, her son, a wart, killed, murdered by 'les Allemands.  She was indeed friendly, but a
little high, a little bit cold.  The cook had the windows of the rooms
opened, showed the apartment.
It was simple and neat Furnished: there linen was stacked in the cupboards;
There was Christophle silver in the buffet.  There was no luxury, but everything was very
Enough.  The apartment is very pleased to Alwine and Dorothée.
- And how much is it for the winter, ma'am?  asked Alwine.
- Three thousand francs, the countess said a little high;  she asked five hundred francs more than they would have asked to Russians or Americans.
- Oh, that's good, Alwine said.
- And once, when moved entirely to pay, continued the old countess.
- That's very good, ma'am, Alwine said.  Yes, that's always so...
- You can submit me certainly recommandaties, right?  said the old countess.
Because I have not had the pleasure to know you and the habit that locataires
submit certain recommandaties if they gemeubeleerde apartments
hire me... Can I join your consul?
Alwine and Dorothée another saw.
- The consul?  Alwine hesitated.  We have not been with him.  We only arrived yesterday.  The hotel is expensive;  we wanted once our apartment
Search... No, ma'am, I can not submit recommandaties Really I
I just adjust my... This lady is my sister... There, in the carriage, mine
children...
- What cuties!  cried the old cook out on the balcony.
- It might be better, madam, Alwine hesitated;  we come back... as we were with the consul?
Suddenly, the old countess saw the vision of its empty apart-
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
17
partment, again for a whole winter.  And she had, from the balcony, the fiacre
seen, full of blond curls, white faces, nice playful children's mannerisms: a trolley-full of sweet rosy youth.  She had always loved children...
- Ma'am, she said to Alwine.  I would never in the habit locataire's
to take, which may bring me no recommandaties because an old woman
as I can in a city like Nice not be too careful with whom she takes in her home.
But you both seem to me so sweet and simple, your children, out there, so make a beautiful little troop, I... if you give me three thousand francs at once
pay... no wants to make objections.  We make a kontraktje on, you pay and the apartment is yours...
Alwine drew paid, and they drove back to their hotel to the suitcases
let get.
- Madame la Comtesse was happy, this time, said the old cook,
with the apartment.  And once in September already paid for the whole holiday!
- Yes... said, hesitantly, the countess.  But I know them women... Et puis, ce sont des Allemandes...
- They have at least once been paid;  Madame la Comtesse surprises can not
have, the cook said;  especially because the women seem tout ce qu'il a the
plus honnête... and the kids are babies.  Come on, now Mrs. need not worry.
Russians are unclean and pay are poor, and Americans
inaudible... really, so a neat German family truly is still preferable...
The Countess deposit the money away.
And they repented, they unknown, neat German family, with the cuties
of children as boarders had taken in her home.
* * *
One morning early the painter of the rez-de-chaussée speak to the countess.
The countess, trembling, received him.
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
18
- Wat is er, Mr. Armand??
- Comtesse, the painter said.  I am of the night, came home around one o'clock.  The
grille of the villa and the front door of the house were wide open.
- Oh God, oh God!  Countess trembled.  I still get killed again!!
- It is already the fourth time, I think that opening the grille and the door, and I want to warn you.
- Oh God, oh God, lamented the old woman.  What can I do, what can I do, I do,
an old lady?  Monsieur Armand, it's those German women, down, sure... I will tackle them, and print them at heart, she doors anyway
to shut...
The countess was said to Alwine, and Alwine, that they are not allowed to open the doors, but it was the old cook.  The countess, very sure of her maid, knew
better...
And since she slept no more, and listened from...
Or spied out, in the dark, on her porch, down the stairs.
* * *
She heard and saw the following:
By eleven o'clock, as the rest had sunk about the villa, whose grille and door old cook had closed carefully, scrapping, they Dorothée, be it Alwine, down and opened with her keys, door and grille...  Modest
men's steps resounded on the cement of the garden... Modest men get
cracked just slightly over the steps.  At the apartment of German women kept the door ajar and her passage was lit up to three hours...
The old countess slept no more, and they always aroused the old cook.  And they
saw an ass of persiennes or down the stairs, trembling bowing,
The humble men come through the garden, the open front door, slightly increase the marble stairs, and disappear into the apartment of the German ladies.  there
were men with, as gentlemen, as a half-lords, as workmen.  All positions shin up by night, until three o'clock, give rendezvous in the apartment of
German ladies...
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
19
- And we thought that it was such a neat ladies, whispered the old cook.
Would they play, Madame la Comtesse?
- Yes, they certainly play, said the countess.  A clandestine roulette... in my house!!  O
God, oh God... I'm definitely murdered again!!
They joined up with her maid, barricade the doors, and the two
old women slept no more, no night...
* * *
Sometimes the men were drunk when they went away, at night for three or four hours,
but their voices are muted however, modest.  Once, on the stairs, saws
the countess and the cook, then curiosity overcame her fears, Alwine
and Dorothée, with loose hair, in open, white robes, saying goodbye to her
visitors.
- Oh God, oh God, wailed in her sleepless nights, the old countess;  what can
I do, an old woman who has no one to help her!  The police inform??
- For God's sake, no, ma'am!  The cook pleaded.  Never the police!  Never
the police!  That would only create scandal for Madame la Comtesse and the case
worse...
It was the saison now, and the nightly parade of male visitors were
busier and busier.  The painter no longer warned that grille and front door remained open the whole night, every night.
On that day, in the garden, in the sunny winter morning in January, the three played
blond children sweet and lovable, and when they saw the countess, they made do kniks and a bow, so as neat German children.  By eleven o'clock appeared for a moment and Dorothee Alwine also in the garden: two calm German women
Citizens-middle class in linen blouses and dark skirts, a Germanic
plait the crown.  The countess was watching, they do not even brushed the face.
They were simple, modest, calm, quiet and unassuming, and installed in wicker chairs with a German handcrafts: tafelloopers with a great,
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
20
reds embroidered stitch.  The children played, sweet and kind with one another, never
noisy, never bothersome.
Together were women and children there, in the garden of the countess, a very
neat, German citizen family that modest wintered in Nice.
* * *
But the countess did not sleep anymore, because she was shaking the whole night in fear that they
would be killed.
They also did not look down the stairs at night;  She looked even more by persiennes in the garden: she crept shivering under her blankets, and she had wanted that would look old cook in her room.  With suitcases and furniture, every
night, the two women barricaded the doors.
And ever since they uitluisterden, they learned to open the already closed doors, the modest pace of many men through gardens and along stairwell.
Furthermore, no sounds...
Even when drunk stumbled visitors, this rumor was immediately muted,
there was lulled discrete votes...
The Carnival was approaching.
* * *
One night, at five o'clock, there was, after a few relatively quiet hours - Alwine and Dorothée were driving Veglione - more noise in the garden than usual.  Coarse tuning
rough men... And the countess and her maid, curious, saw the
persiennes two vulgar, drunken rock jetty, which came home with Alwine and
Dorothée, both of them in simple, white dominoes.  The rock pier, with the two
German women, also went to her apartment.
Among them the Countess heard this night more noise.  There was much laughter, there
was clinking of glasses, there was suddenly a klettering of shards, as if a mirror with a heavy object was thrown.  Then shouts and screams, and
Then silence.
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
21
The two wondered women, mistress and maid, clung to one another,
Grooving
- Would not you Monsieur Armand warn?  To help us?  asked the countess
her maid.  Could it perhaps should be done??
- I dare not, 'said the cook;  I dare not go down.  And then... Monsieur Armand, with the carnival, sometimes not before eight o'clock in the morning at home.
It remained silent, silent.  There was sallow appearance of dawn through the persiennes.
Suddenly... a long time was called at the door of the apartment of the countess.
- Oh God, oh God!  wailed the Countess.  What is that??!
The women did not open, trembling from the fear.  The electricians cal call
continued, urgent, urgent.
- Who calls there??  early, before the closed door, the cook.
- I cried a soft child's voice.  I... Elsa!
It was the oldest girl, thirteen years.
- What is it, Elsa?  asked the countess, due to the close by.
- I'm afraid, madam!  Elsa pleaded with her fine voice.  And Willy is also
cries scared and Kätchen.  Because mom and aunt Dorothée do not sleep: they are
still at the drawing-room, and the door is ajar and the light is on, but we dare not go in, to ask mom and aunt Dorothée come anyway
sleep!  It's already so late and they come but do not sleep, and the business is already gone!  Ah, madam, gracious lady countess, we are so afraid, and it is already so late and mom and aunt come but do not sleep, and the business is already gone... and it is so
nasty... it's so nasty... oh, dear lady... because it is all red in the hallway!!
And we are so afraid, we are so scared!!
Horrified watched the two trembling women to another.  remained for the closed door
the little Elsa sue.  Curiosity overcame the horror of the countess and
of her maid.  She pushed away the barricade ran and opened the suitcase
door.  Elsa threw herself sobbing in the skirts of the countess.
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
22
- We are so afraid, we are so scared!!  repeated the child.
The countess, old maid, the stairs went down, led by the sobbing child.  To
the open door of the apartment of German women were the other two
children, blond and blond Willy Kätchen, and wept and sobbed too.
The maid, the Countess occurred within, as driven by her terror and
curiosity.  A greasy trail of blood smeared on the Office of the
corridor!
The maid, suddenly energetic, threw open the door of the salon ease.
- Oh... ooh!!  she cried, clutching the fingers up.
- Oh... oooh!!!!  shrilled the scream of the old countess, while the three children screaming in horror, screaming crying himself firmly krampten to her swooning
legs...
In the light illuminating salon, amid a chaos of broken glass, road
hurled champagne bottles and a shattered mirror, lay a
table, a couch, the two naked, mutilated bodies of gruwlijk Alwine and Dorothée.
They were probably slaughtered by two drunken butcher boys;  they were with
a broad knife split open in pools of blood, everywhere red plain along
curtains and carpet and furniture.  In the twisted mouths of both were women
Proppen gestouwd van hare verscheurde domino's.
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
23
Arnaldo Candido
On an autumn afternoon - I'm staying with my friend Orlando for a few days at his country house in Cecina - we are at the first drink in tall, antique marble fireplace, blazing fire blocks, tea, and I say:
- Orlando, tell me that.
Orlando smiles and replies, as he always does so in a case:
- What do you want me to tell you?
- I do not know, Orlando, I answer;  you can tell what you want.  But I'm not reflective of noon, and thereby have no desire to talk herself.  You should
So, - you hosting - keep me busy, and do me a story.
Orlando laughs, stroking his hand through his ravevlerk, stretches out his legs, smiling again, shrugs his shoulders and his eyebrows, and finally said:
- I Want to do the story of my uncle Arnaldo?  The story of my uncle
Arnaldo and his friend Candido1?
- Which is good!  I answer and carefully pour my second cup of tea and nibble at it brittle cookies, while Orlando throws wood on the fire...
To stabbing then launched into his story: the story of his uncle Arnaldo
and his friend Candido, which I command you, reader, to tell, but in my own
words because Orlando asserts that they are better than his, though his sonorous
1
Spreek uit candidate.
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
24
Italian, and sounding mine but the language of vochte, lowlands...
* * *
Uncle Arnaldo was in his sixties, tall, slim, graying, pleasant to look and
ways, and most pleasant in intercourse with his friends, which he every
Day met at Cercle and cafe.  Uncle Arnaldo therefore was loved by all his
friends, and even his children loved him, but he was separated from his
woman, at least they lived separately and they never saw each other.  Because Uncle Arnaldo
was against his children, a son and a daughter, and his numerous friends, never in some fatherly or friendly commitment came too short, but at his wife he came up short in many, if not in all, and his friends and  his children - his son Orazio was young lawyer and his daughter was right
married - thought that Dad just one error was committed in his life: that of a
to enter into marriage, because dad was from the beginning totally unsuitable for pozitie of faithful husband.  The small and great adventures
adventures of Uncle Arnaldo were also numerous;  his heart inflamed at least lucifertje that a woman look sideways thrust out and his senses were in flames, with every charming Eve, who passed, and for a moment, was higher than necessary,
trousseerde.  Was it so far, then uncle Arnaldo fatality followed the lateral view of the very slender and greated... rts!  Again there was a gash on his
marriage contract back cut, which mistreated document already fraying and
reepen hing.
Zoo Uncle Arnaldo, loving father, jovial friend and comrade,
Man-of-the-world in all respects, glittering with innumerable qualities, but
only hitting a sad figure as a husband, especially if faithful husband.  And his friend Candido, unfortunately, was though small, balding and put through coal black hair, like him, are morally if not whole physical image.  His friend Candido was also a
loving father - his son was a lieutenant in the Sardinian Grenadiers, Rome,
- A jovial camels
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
25
counsel and friend, a brilliant man-of-the-world and cercle mate, and thereby,
Unfortunately, as the uncle Arnaldo equally unfaithful husband of a lady who behind
koulissen remains of this story.
The two knew more mature, but still flammable, elegant viveurs and clubmen
then everyone on the"piazza,"as they say in Italian, and if they
Both the large and slim and graying, the other put and small, and carbon black, stood before Aragno or the cercle, on the sidewalk, to the custom of
Italiaansche gentlemen, they waved a greeting here incessantly hand, there
a flourish of his hat, and the every turn a jovial 'addio!' them, to jovial back smiling acquaintances and friends legion.
* * *
So matters stood when Candido uncle Arnaldo one morning for Aragno
bejegende with these words:
- Friend Arnaldo... you do not know what's happening to me?
- And what happens to you... friend Candido?
- Arnaldo... my wife is dead!
- Is your wife dead?!
- And it seems that she has forgiven me.  Because I inherit from her...
- The erft??
- Yes but...
- But what anyway, happy friend Candido?
- I yard of her money... but...
- But what??  Speak up!
- An operetta flock to Venice!  Yes, dear Arnaldo, but be so surprised if
you may!  I inherit from my wife an operetta flock to Venice!  She was rich, but her money let them out after me;  she lets me after her operetta troupe, which she, to amuse themselves, my dear fellow, was immediately rice!  Venice!!
- Was your wife... rice directly from an operetta troupe!
- She was rice directly from an operetta troupe!  Venice!  You've never known?
The fact is my legacy and prove it to you.  Dear Arnaldo, she has forgiven me and remember her
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
26
testament, but in the name of all the gods, what should I do with an operetta troupe in
Venice??
- Best Candido, Arnaldo said;  I did not know that you could inherit an operetta troupe!
- Neither do I, dear Arnaldo, but the notary assures me.  I inherit the impresa, the enterprise;  I inherit the right to be different operettas with my junk
perform, I inherit the assemblage scores, I inherit the musical instruments of the orchestra, i yard decorations, costumes and requizieten, and I inherit to fulfill the obligation, the contracts with the artists.
- En je Erft before de-woman?
- No, Arnaldo, I inherit fortunately not the prima-donna, because that is Elodia Gineschi and sixty years.
- La Gineschi?  But that is a famous aktrice!
- She, too, and she's still famous: they have a voice, still, as a trickle of pure water and a waist to span and she has a lot of talent, though she is sixty and she is still to  steal as the 'Duchino"(Le Petit Duc) or the' Vedova allegra"(the Merry band Widow).  But... she was sixty.  What the
fine-balle-rina is not: it is but a moment about twenty, and that is...
- The is?  early begeerig with fonkeloogen, Arnaldo.
- Artemisia Cherubini!
- La Cherubini!  Arnaldo shouted out.  But Candido, what a mess!  La Gineschi and
Cherubini la!!  But Candido, happy guy, what a mess, what a prime junk yard you!
- En de tenor is Carlo Manetti!
- Carlo Manetti!  But then I have also often heard and seen, and that is
a boy of talent!  Best Candido!  Best Candido!  And what are you gonna do with
You operetta troupe in Venice?
- Well, dear Arnaldo, I think I liquidate the whole lot!  And do hand
for a bargain at the first, the best, who has lust...
- Candido Do you like!  So to liquidate a prime gang for a bargain!  Since nothing comes from, you know, cried uncle Arnaldo.
- And what then, Arnaldo?  What do you want me to do with my legacy?
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
27
- Hear, Candido, I'll tell you what I want you to do with it!  Itself, with me, if I can help you, exploit you things and continue impresa!  If your wife has been directly of rice, to amuse themselves, why should we then together
directors shall not be of even to amuse us, if only for a few months?  What do you think of my plan, Arnaldo?  If we want once the train
to take Venice?
- Well, Arnaldo, Candido said;  the idea laughs it to me;  to vooreen joke -
un 'scherzo grazioso - things to exploit them for a while, but... there's my son, Dario.  See, that's an ambitious gentleman, an excellent well-regarded officer, and he wants to be not less than - in the future - Minister of War!
- Yes, Arnaldo said thoughtfully;  that's Orazio exactly like my son, now a
advokaatje young, but just as you boy very seriously, so seriously, best friend, as we never were or will be, and who cherishes ambitious dreams of
deputato and lofty political career... But, what if we first talked to our guys??
- And with the notary!  cried, already won, Candido out.  Come on, Arnaldo bowl
mead!  Dude, we will have a great fun!  Only, first with the boys
talk, hear, and too fond proposals they have not already!
* * *
Arnaldo and Candido, as two stiff, older gentlemen, hurried toward the notary.
And a bell here and a bell as the two sons Dario and Orazio were opgetelefoneerd.
-... It is a legacy, Dario... Orazio, it is a legacy!
In no time were the serious young at the office, at the notary,
together with their two playful father.  But the father did not frisky;  they did as a genuinely men-of-affairs.
- You see, Dario said Candido;  Now do things by hand, says that the notary too, would be a great loss to give us.  You know,
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
28
I was never agree with your mother, that she had pleasure in that operetta company;  We are decent people for such things, and you, of course, there never talked about with your fellow officers, but... now it's once so now we inherit the lot, dude... it's all about really do not  that whole mess, which perhaps a few
hundred thousand francs worth...
(The notary whom was promised a good supper at the Cercle, agreed that at
Full...)
- Make for perhaps ten thousand... Hand balls... why I thought
about it, Dario, I had to Really go just by what the impresa, until
We can sell the whole sant stall for a good sum... Look, do you have money
nevertheless also necessary, you want to create a chic military career...
- And... added Uncle Arnaldo now is to it, speaking to his son Orazio,
who already in his frock-coat looked like a minister, while his father a bit shy smiling standing before him in a joyous, English diamond, and, loose, with a carnation in the buttonhole;  Now I thought, Orazio, my friend Candido there to Venice, a little help, you see, with the impresa, because God dude, without
monitoring and control, they rob you, they steal from you... And I share with Candido in receipts... and that is you do too good... for your political career, you see...
- Yes, and Dario Orazio said, and they said it, another look at you income, almost
the same time:
- But would our fathers... or are serious enough, so for a job!
- You can be sure, though guys!  insured dad's solemn.
- If it is such weighty matters... Arnaldo went solemnly forth...
- And the career of our guys, Candido fell...
The boys were won, the notary supped that evening and delicious
titubeerde at four o'clock in the night between Arnaldo Candido and home...
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
29
And the two new operetta impresariï, Glunder income nod against each other, the next morning went to Venice to exploit honor the legacy.
* * *
Venice in the Fenice Theatre, has already rented by the deceased immediately rice,
waited the whole operetta troupe, with the maestro band director at the head, coming down from the heir.  And the heir Candido appeared paunchy
jovial and pleasant, smiling, man-of-the-world and man-of-the-cercle, with
beside him his friend Arnaldo, slim, graying, jovial and pleasant, smiling,
Man-of-the-world and man-of-the-cercle, and both hands and shared out here
komplimentjes out there, and all the members of the operetta troupe were delighted, so does the maestro, as Elodia Gineschi and Artemisia Cherubini and Manetti and Carlo
all, all the others... Sure, the company was put forth, the kontrakten
would be honored, and the Relâche nights that were there, were
no more than voegzame been mourning after the death of the rice immediately.
So would therefore tomorrow evening will be screened the Duchino again, and Elodia
Gineschi, sixty years, appeared as Petit Duc, while Arnaldo and Candido - skirt and white tie - de contrôle would form them.  And for the presentation, Arnaldo said to Elodia, tenderly:
- Elodia... you remember... five-and-twenty years ago?
- Certainly, Elodia smiled.  Certainly, signor Arnaldo.  Well, you're still the
same.
- And you, Elodia, you're épatant, with your fine voice and your fine figure in your transvestite from Duchino!
- Oh, caro amico, Elodia said;  I'm great mom, although I have talent and voice, and says my granddaughter, she's never so will I do if...
- And who is your granddaughter, Elodia?
- That's my little Duchessina, which is the small Elvira Titanetti.
- Ach, Elodia, Elodia ach!  Lachtal Lachtal Arnaldo en Elodia;  wat
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
30
scherzo grazioso is that!!  you play the Duchino and your granddaughter
Duchessina??
- Yes, yes, senza dubbio!  Elodia said;  and they both laughed, it was a kind, and the little Elvira just arrived, and Arnaldo made her a thousand komplimentjes that they deserved, but then a servant came to call him, on behalf of Signore
Candido, to still attend the contrôle;  since the signor it could not make alone.
Well, the contrôle received two posh gentlemen whole world chic
Venice, because the case had become known at once;  visitors flocking
Post - because really the most gang-was most excellent - and Arnaldo Candido and received prince and marquis who and which the Marquise and the princess, and the
were handshake and kiss on the hand and bending and joke over and over again, and all found
the most charming, cozy viveurs that two such as Arnaldo and Candido - known on the piazza, though!  - The impresa would continue.  The impresa deserved it.
The deceased directly Rice whim was to have a great troop, the costumes, decorations and requizieten were even an ordinary luxury, and
when grandmamma and granddaughter, duchino and Duchessina her couplets
detail learned there was a cheer and a: brava!  brava!!, and the performance was a great success.
And the receipts amounted to two-thousand-three-hundred-fifty francs.
- Now, Candido said;  that's two thousand francs for the Impresa and
Three-hundred-fifty francs to supper once at night.
* * *
Well, there was supped in the Cappello Nero;  there was supped with the àl
artists and musicians with all the gentlemen;  and Artemisia Cherubini, the ballerina1, sat next Candido and small Duches-1
There is good Italiaansche operetta troops becoming a ballet;  where no ballet music was written, is there than geïmprovizeerd but should be danced.
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
31
sina, Elvira Titanetti, sat next to Arnaldo, and the two gentlemen, still stiff and youthful for their paternal ages, ontvlamden as they used to ignite
for Schalke looks and slender ankles.  The cozy supper lasted up to two hours;  Elodia then stood up, and the others returned home, one after another,
grateful for the fun enjoyed.
And Impresa was operated successfully.  To the other night there was
presentation, and Elodia achieved triumphs in Mascot, in Vedova Allegra, not least in the Bella Elena, where they proudly her six crosses, was most charming, most charming and sang very naughty akteerde.  And there alternated the receipts
between two thousand five hundred and two thousand-seven hundred and
two thousand six hundred and Candido held round numbers, there was after all
performance, and cash withdrawal, put aside two thousand for the Impresa and was
the trifle of a rest slid into the rokvestzakjes Candido and Arnaldo, to snuggle, with all the artists and all the musicians to have supper at the Cappello Nero.
Well, the soupertjes became famous.  The orgy, small particles, which completely
Venice mouth was full of it, and the princes and marquis names are sometimes
participate in, and their ladies watertandden to also agree to be in... but thàt
did not happen.  The little orgy little soon lasted, instead of up to two hours to three hours, then four hours, then to five hours, and finally was there, after Bella Elena, a soupertje that lasted up to eight hours, and it was decided  with a quadrille of Candido and Artemisia and Arnaldo Elvira, on the table, among the empty
champagne-flesschen.
It was this orgietje - the exploitation of Impresa had lasted just two seasons-summer by the two jolly viveurs of round figures - which even the
fame in Rome by sounded the serious ears of the prospective Minister
War and that of the deputato budding.  The two serious young-people
took counsel with one another, took the train and arrived in Venice, just
before the commencement of the Duchino.  they found
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
32
their fathers with the contrôle, gerokt, whited-dast, gewittebloemd, jovial, and stiff as ever, with perhaps only the eyelids some very tired.  The
fathers were very impressed by the sudden appearance of their boys.  After
the show - as always a success for Elodia and her granddaughter - the guys wanted absolutely inspection of books.  It appeared that the two thousand,
round number, covered the cost of every performance... but nothing more.
- But how, per Bacco, asked when Dario and Orazio;  the receipts every night
always thousand and never more or less?
The orgietje secret they were informed, and they looked at each other,
They joined hands and shake the serious heads and took their
decision.
Well, that night - the old men, really what seized by the
fatigues of Impresa, understood that it had to - it was last orgietje
celebrated.  Dario Orazio and sat down on either side of Elodia, and stayed
correkt and tidy.  The orgietje lasted until half past four, not later.  But Dario Orazio and were thus won by the gladdening tone that prevailed and the truly good or champagne from the worth of Cappello Nero's that they their sprightly
fathers vergunden repeat the famous quadrille among the empty bottles
Elvira and Artemisia...
It was the end of the impresa of the two gay gentlemen.  the next
tomorrow, for fifteen thousand francs, Candido sold his inheritance to an impresario of Milan.
And left Candido and Arnaldo, strongly held onto the arm by
their boys, who have seen their final sombreeren's career!  - To the station for the train to Rome to address, elated by all the artists and all the musicians who never forgot the charming soupertjes and small orgy gently offered by their impresariï after each performance at the Cappello Nero, in honor of
the round number.
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
33
* * *
Zoo ushered Orlando's story about his uncle Arnaldo and his friend Candido, both
Well known on the piazza in Rome and Venice, which story to my friend's sonorous Italiaansch really much amuzanter then ushered into my language of low and vochte countries...
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
34
The young king
I
The young King of Eretria was for his mother, which was in.  Behind the
Queen Mother, as well as in-a shriveled, shrank old grandmother on a
divan;  the two princesses were in deep mourning, the krippen veils from veiled heure heads off;  Mother was a very beautiful woman and even Grandmother,
shrinking in her attitude, always wrung his hands and moaned softly, smart
and half madness.  Due to the great departure, to and fro, walked, frowning the
blonde brauwen, the Kings Uncle paternal one forsche man
kolonelsuniform.
The young King was driving uniform;  He had just come back from his journey, and the queen mother, who anxiously, awaiting him, had embraced him with a sob
withheld, and then told him his morning now leaving.  And the young
King, with a movement of passion, his hat and riding crop thrown on a console, and he stood for his mother who was in.  The young king was barely twenty years.  He already showed a ge-inherited predisposition to obesity, but, to his youth, there was now only a circular line of plumpness to his cheeks,
and were in his pink, fresh face, blue eyes, gentle and kind, and
usually smiled the soft palate, upper lip shaven, with amiable,
sympathieken trek.
Now the young King did not smile.  Now his eyes sparkled almost tears
and the drift clutched him in his already plump
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
35
hands.  And he stood before his mother, who was after her emotion and fear, motionless in the high chair, the black crape crease folding her head against her
black robe.
- Well now!  then called the young king.  If it is so... let me give up!
I've had enough!  I'm done with it!
She did not answer.  Mother sat motionless, breathing again, because her son
alive before her stood unharmed;  in the sofa corner and groaned Grandmother
Always wrong, always, the hands and the prince, frowning, stopped not be nervous walk to and fro through the great room.  But the young King repeated:
- I'm done with it!  Then let me give up!  What will I remain their king
if they hate me!  If they hate me, as she hated my father and brother, they like dogs have shot on our side!  If they hate me, as she
we all hate you mother, your grandmother, you especially, Uncle!  What will I their king
remain, and what we will continue in this country!  Let me do away, let us go away!
Let us become too proud to continue to rule over those who hate us and shoot us like dogs, like dogs!  My father... he might have errors!  But my brother...
Mother had a gesture;  she clung, alleging her sorrow, hands as
imploring together;  the young King did not consider it in its violent disorder.
- My poor brother... he proceeded;  what mistakes he had?  What mistakes?  Like a
dog as a dog they shot him dead, shot at our
sides, besides Father also shot him dead;  in your arms, Mother!  Should I continue
going to rule over them?  I also hate them, I hate them, I can do nothing for them,
I hate this country, I really hate this country, this city, I hate all this...
He swung his arm and pointed to the broad white city on her azure sea that
blankte who blauwde in wide vista and panorama visible from the three arched windows of the hall.
The young King went on:
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
36
- I am young!  I want to live!  I want to enjoy life and be young.  I want to be myself and not a doll: a doll, whom they hate.  I want to ride a horse as I have pleasure without having to fear that behind a tree in the park there lurks that
aiming at me with his revolver to shoot me if they have my Father
done, and my poor brother... Do you hear, Mother, and you, Uncle, do you hear?  I want to be young and I want to live, and I want to get out of here, because I hate everything, everything here, and everyone, and I can do nothing for them, despite all my good will, proud of my wrinkles and sagging, proud of my studies to  late at night, and in spite of all our economy, which we hardly bestows to surround ourselves with the station of our dignity!  If they still want a republic, what will I then bending and bending and me appeared blocks, and are so efficient, I even a new pair of boots order while I think, that I've needed??
He stamped her foot now, with a glance at his boots, and then, calmer, he repeated:
- Have you heard the mother;  Uncle, do you hear me?  I want to give up.
I want to go away.
- It can not, Mother said.
Behind her, groaned and moaned Grandmother in the sofa corner, and its many
grinding voice cracked, broken into tears, repeated:
- It can not be, oh no, can not, Renato, it can not!
And the Prince, striking his nervous walk, said also cool:
- No, you can not.
- And why can not, cried, stamping his foot, the young King.  Why can not I
do not break the useless shackles that fetter me to no one's prosperity, to
no one's happiness against all their desires and wishes in?  Why should I
life, always thinking of danger, so I can never ever forget the terrible tragedy and a vision of blood always, always, here, here, see my eyes, my father, my brother, in their blood!!  It can, because I want it, I want out, I want out of here, I want to give up and away, and I will tell them, of challenge, now, once I
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
37
will tell the ministers...
- It can not be repeated Mother, soft and firm;  It can not, Renato, for
We can not give up everything, kids, everything we have, we already lost so much, so much!
- Oh, no, it can not, Renato kermlachte Grandmother in half madness
smart;  We lost all Grandfather, Father, and our Crown Prince;  but we'll still keep our country!  Our city!  Our palace!  Our power, our throne!
She suddenly rose up and cried
- We still want to retain our crown, Renato, our crown of Eretria We...
can still lose everything... Oh, no, I do not;  No, I do not, Renato, I do not want you to do away!!
And she fell down again in the sofa corner and sobbed softly and laughed;  she moaned and wrong, or they had very cold, hands.
Then the Prince:
- It can not Renato, because you should not be cowardly, and leave everything to us
belongs, what belongs to us, and what we can defend with our lives, with our
blood.
- Our life!  Our blood!
The young King burst into a shrill laugh and exclaimed:
- My blood that they spill like the blood of dogs!  My life, that they corner from behind a tree while I ride horses!  No, I will finally be free, I want to live my youth, free, free, and...
A chamberlain, pale, announced that the Ministers were at the palace and
Governor of the Re...
Mother rose up and seized the King's plump hand.
- Renato... I beg you!  she said;  Be wise!  Be wise... and strong!
Refrain you!  Persevere!!
Otherwise amiable smiling, weeke mouth drew bitter;  to be over
friendly blue eyes was stealing the moisture...
And he hugged his mother with a sob... and no more sorrow to her
do...... he controlled himself and persevered...
And, between the Queen Mother and the Prince, he went to the Ministers,
who were waiting with the Governor.
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
38
II
It was months later.
The Palace was completely lit, for there would be a gala meal that evening in honor of the visit once lofty gasts: the Prezident of a South American
Republic.  But just at the moment when the young King, before the banquet, will clothe wanted his generals uniform - for him were on the table, in the open étuis his orders and sparkled like jewels star - sounded shots for the Palace.
King started and ran his valet.
And between a gallery, which guided the leave of Queens,
Worlds were cries and rushed into the dressing room of a child
Konings.
- Renato!  Renato!!  screamed the Queen Mother.
- Oh, Holy Mother of God!  groaned Grandmother.  It's done, it's done!
The mother, in her black velvet robe, why the black lace veils, the
bare neck overfonkeld of diamonds, clutching the boy king, who was still in his shirt, in her bare arms.  And Grandmother, at his feet, collapsed
a, and shrank as if she died of madness and fear, and she moaned tragi ash
higher:
- It is done!  It is done!!
Prince, uniformed, collapsed inside.
- They shoot!!  he cried.
In deed, from a warship in the harbor, now thundered the guns.
Through the galleries of the palace princes heard the flight of horrified
courtiers, servants.  There were shrill vrouwegillen, crude mannestemmen, there was
cursing, swearing, there were mainly wegdreunende, fleeing steps.
- It's the revolution!  cried the Prince out.  Come on, Renato, take your sword;  come with me;
there are our troops loyal;  it is only the navy, which...
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
39
- I'm not dressed, said the King.
He was in his shirt, uniform pants, and boots with lacquered, the bare arms of his mother, who, when silenced by fear, clutching himself with big eyes
to his chest until he could hardly breathe...
Suddenly, in the open door of the gallery, published three lords.  They were correct in frock-coat and bowed.  The middle animal gentlemen said,
- We are the delegates of the Government of the Republic of the time being
Eretria.  The Republic is proclaimed the King had been revoked by the
government, and with him, so far ruling dynasty banished
at all times...
- Misery Lingen!  Ondànkbaren!  cry the Queen Mother, with her bare
jewel chest protecting her son, and Grandmother, at the King's feet,
begged:
- Do not kill him!  Do not kill him!  We only have his sake!
The King trembled, he said nothing.  The prince said nothing.
The delegate went on:
- The life of a king is safe and will be protected by a guard.  But
King must instantly leave the country.  There is a motor car behind in the park, at the back gate.  The royal yacht is finished in den Ouden Haven and is available to the royal family.  The royal family itself may go wherever she wants.  Her private property will be protected and hair
redirected to the address to choose.
- I'm not dressed, trembling repeated the King.
- Would you then instantly clothe, Your Majesty, the correct master said.  There is no time to lose.  The room must be without delay.  Otherwise it will do to protect the time being impotent Government, the lives of the royal family...
There was no one to help the king.  No chamberlain, no lackey.  Nobody.
Except this dressing room, seemed already left the immense palace.  Outside, on the harbor sounded cannon;  was also shot in the streets and there were Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
40
commandos by anguished cries over.
Prince, hasty, wanted to help the king.
- Your Highness, the delegation held against;  can not go in uniform.  She has to
verkleeden itself.  And as quickly as possible.
- O God, O God, O Holy Mother of God!  Queens cried.
They let loose the king and threw away, to pick up her robe.  The king,
a moment alone with the three men.  He trembled, seeking a collar.
When he found none, he hit with trembling fingers a silk girdle around his molligen, whites jongensnek.  One of the gentlemen kept him on his jacket.
- Thank you, King said kindly.
He grabbed a automobielpet he was finished, wrapped in a wide cloak.  Zoo
He waited a moment, the Queens and the Prince.
And he said, nervous, trembling, quivering, with weeping eyes:
- I am delighted that the Republic of Eretria has been declared.  I will finally not at every step have to be shot to fear death, like a dog.
I will finally be able to live again, for me, for myself...
The gentlemen, correctly, did not respond...
Shortly afterwards, the evening darkness of the palace park, the King fled the
Queens, Prince.  The fares of the car, threw the rear gate,
ghostly beams out.  Now the King sobbed wildly and Grandmother
cried, stumbling behind the others, stumbling over her slip:
- It is done!  It is done!  It's everything, done everything!
III
It was a few months later.
Young, dethroned King of Eretria stood at a high open window, which looked
the gold-leafed herfstprachten of an English park.  Green, velvety
lawns stretched out
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
41
for the king's eye and cream blonde damhertjes grazed in the grassy drop.
A single white statue blankte with a pitched just below the swirling leaves...
The young king wore a white tennis serge suit.  discovered his soft collar
molligen, white guys neck and a broad, yellow leather belt surrounded him
are slim waist.  He looked fresh, rosy, young and elegant: he had all his racket in his hand, and he would play tennis with his cousins, the children of one.  just as he did.  dethroned monarch with whom he was staying, now that the Queen Mother had not yet decided where to settle, to wear her grief, bereavement and
disillusionment.
But the young King lingered... and as he looked over the magnificent park, filled his friendly blue eyes with great, great tears.  A wave of homesickness swelled in his heart.  a wave of nostalgia for... Eretria, to his country,
homeland... that he did not hate, which he loved, love had nothing in the world... and he would never Keeren.  A longing for his people, whose language he never
more would hear, because to him no one spoke more languages.  A longing for
his palace in the rezidentie to his summer castles out... What was here all small, cramped, scary, miserable around him!  What he lacked greatness here,
grandeur, splendor, eerbewijzingen;  what he lacked this power, if only there was a semblance of power!  Oh, how he missed here at this beautiful English mansion much... much... everything... everything... what was his life... what more there was his life would be;  o what he missed... his majesty!  What he lacked here royal power - a delusion -;  What he missed his crown here: a symbol!  What
he was here now humiliated, trampled, chased away, shown the door, and with a modern correctness of modern Republi-kein cal ways, it
infuriated, raging impotence, furious despair, furious silent
despair... because he... suddenly... irrefutable, seemed that everything... he had lost everything, and inevitably, what value could have given his life, too
all true that everything has become no more than a symphony
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
42
bool and a delusion: that which, tragi ash, all his life and evenboortigen
breathe because they are not unlike thàt can feel in their poor, golden blood...
His weeke, lovable mouth quivered bitterly;  his friendly blue eyes
rolled the great tears on his chubby cheeks boys.
- I did indeed want to be free!  he thought bitterly.  They do not have me shot like a dog!  I'm free, I'm independent!  I can live!  Come, let us go play tennis...
And he went, now humming and waving his racket.
And the wave of melancholy, which swelled did in his heart to the pain, the young King regretted that he did not, before his palace in the night of the Revolution, either, sword in hand, was killed in the defense of his divine  rights... either death
was shot like a dog.
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
43
When I was a little boy...
In useless reveries, which, like the light, the landscape and the atmosphere of the room are good, belong to my greatest pleasures, is above all a very
useless reminisce and dream back to the longest past years, when I
was a little boy.  I do not know why this is, and why the back-see
The strange blurring of past years, to the first, that I am joyful, so great temptation exercises that I shirk difficult it can me in
violets few cal and goudasschige twilights of zuiderzonsondergangen in
doezelfluweelen the eclipses of a room, where the first fire yet
blazed and the first autumn chill already shudders.  Because importance of back-see not;  there is nothing to see important;  no romantiesch incident turns it on, and the joys and sorrows belong to much later times.  And yet my gaze
dreamy eyes which disinterested first years, and weaves it into dusk and
blackout a melancholy which was very simple: the first living things
a child who does not yet know itself, and begin to already leaving, looking for what he will be.
I was a quiet, solitary child, and it amazes me now that I was so.  I was the youngest of a large family, noisy and crowded about me, and I myself was quiet and introverted, but not sad or very rarely, because there is usually a smile was soft in me as a spark, which steadily glimpte.  I was a week, soft child;  my
sisters were all women - at least, I saw them so;  my brothers were big boys
- At least, I found them very big, and I myself, very down among them, could not help but week
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
44
are soft, although I was not suppressed.  My father always remained something far from me, but my mother was very sweet: I was at her like a chick beneath the wings of the hen, I was safe and warm in her, and I had her very sweet, because I was sure that  they always make everything would protect me.  Because I was afraid, I was a frightened child, I was afraid of dark stairs, I was afraid of bearded men, I was afraid
for murderers and to tigers especially, and I was getting very afraid of ghosts.
For all that, I was certain, that my mother protecting me would be, but I was not always at her, I was playing in the children's room, and the nurse was adjusting to the window, and although they were friendly, I wanted sometimes to  my mother.
And it's strange, but I've always kept that desire, and sometimes I wish
even to my mother, and when she died, and I was already a man and married, it has been to me, as if disappeared protection of my life.
Now I found it to be nice sometimes afraid, and made me stories of tigers
and murderers, very large tigers and bearded killers;  the latter especially
stadige were my fears and I still remember the kilkoude shiver that overcame me when my niece - now my wife - asked me once, when she a small, pale, blond girl, much younger than me:
- What are you more afraid of, say...... thieves or murderers??
Then I, from the bottom of my heart trembling, stammered:
- Oh... for killers... because... that make you dead!
That fear is not stuck with me.  I can, for fear of my wife, evening
wander into neighborhoods in Italiaansche cities, to the romantic of those areas, and I am afraid nor thieves, nor even for murderers and I have never had a
revolver at me, because I fear could it be to shoot someone dead mead.
Afraid of death I was.  And once, I almost saw the dead, I am so
shocked that I will never forget it.  We lived in The Hague, on the
Mauritskade, of the need, die when
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
45
the feeding Nassaulaan;  it was winter, the canal was frozen and dropped a strider, while I was sitting at the window to put on my socks - white socks with red stripes - through the ice, under the bridge and became lifeless, fainted in all
CASES, put out... From my window I saw pale, wet corpse, with flabby arms, and druipharen and toeë eyes, and thought it so terrible, that I, a wick on, stumbled to my mother, stairs  off, according to the salon, and her
shot burst into uncontrollable sobbing... terrified and kilkoud because I den
Death had seen!
Boyfriends I had little, I usually played alone.  I played all kinds of games, where the larger brothers and sisters not understood - it was rubbish, why they
laughed - but for me it was all something;  and I gathered for my play
strangest things: fashion plates, gold and silver cans of Chen wine bottle, glass pieces, rags tarlatan the ball dresses of my sisters, dia-balloons, and pawns of siege games, all of whom were men and had names.
And with that stuff - it was rubbish in deed - I built my first novels
, which were mainly through terrible robbers and murderers abducted beautiful
ladies: the novel was mostly off very sad, and at night I cried for it, in my bed.
I was a very pious child.  While we at home were not devout, I had quite a
Child's gotten, and Adam and Eve in Paradise, oh I found it beautiful;  Abel and Cain, the Tower of Babel and Noah, made great impression on me: God found
I terribly big and wonderful, and so strictly, to be afraid... God had to fear!  - And I feared him, almost more than the murderers...
While - I find very strange that now - not Jesus spoke to me and I, when I read it, my first question was aware, and thought he never existed... they tell only what is in that book.
I was a very pious child.  We did not go to church, but I had an aunt,
who went, and I thought she was right.  And I had
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
46
myself learned a prayer that I evening without fail opzeide for me
went to sleep: the beginning was:
We honor his head to bed bow,
Where our military is spread,
We want our gratitude
To express the good God
For blessing us prepared...
And I finished this prayer-in-verse prose with the line:
Lord, save me for the Black Art!
Because had the nurse and the maid spoken in my presence the
Black Art and the Artist, by incantation, suddenly the windows in a house
About the jump could open his Áll unexpectedly... and I had so
horrible found, though I said nothing, I prayed God to me for months
to keep the Dark Arts.
But now the time came, that my first novel not only thought but also
wrote.  It was a story two pages in blue gekaft booklet and
told of a knight in Constantinople, whose palace burned and whose treasure was rescued from his coffers by marrying a monkey.  I had the whole story just invented, and was very proud that it was read in the family circle.  My second literary aptitude - I was eight years - was a description of Eskimos, more documented and less invented, and had little success in the sense,"they smear themselves with grease, wash never, and smell terrible..." began my sister
loudly roar, no I took her ill and very unmotivated found:
my fiasco, however, made me, after the success of the knight of Constantinople, so painful that I did not write more in years...
Great fantasies went into me.  Some Biblical names, like Babylon, the
Farao's van Egypte, of Nebuchadnezzar,
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
47
Semiramis called me a mysterious disorder of fame on: something,
as if a voice within me cried: you see?  there it is again... and my sister, who had fantazie me, made me a han gene the garden - oh, a hanging garden!
These were, in a corner of the children's room, on stairs of peat, with water
medicijnfleschjes filled, and it stung flowers... but rest assured that
The terraces were mysterious for me and exotiesch blossoming trees.
Remember you, Trudy?
So it was, when my brother Frans, imagine into working with me, me
gave ten names to a letter of precious stones.  I knew there not ten, I knew just brilliant, diamond and pearl... but he told me that was not a pearl gemstone that brilliant and diamond were the same stone and it was he who completed the list, and taught me  :
Ruby red;  emerald green;  turquoise, sky blue;  sapphire, indigo;  topaz, yellow and rosy;  amethyst, violet;  chryzoliet, golden stone;  chryzopraas, yellow-green;  beryl, brown gold...
I heard those names before the first, but I suddenly saw all these stones sparkle;  it was as if I was there earlier, across former times, had possessed in great storehouses, and since I've always loved jewels, they have a great fascination exerted on me, something magiesch 'and occultistiesch', something magical power having antique splendor;  jewels, for me, are not cold, but have a look and a soul as good as flowers, how else but lifeless they are me, formatting and the list since my brother had never been: the sparkle of their names sound was life,
and when I then saw for the first time, was a mysterious shudder through me, and I dreamed at night of treasures.
And why those things had now greater sorcery to me than others,
I do not know, but I know that was a giraffe the only beast that same condition of antique tooverpracht exerted on me, and I in the Zoo getting very long in the long gehalsde could see square flattened giraffe, with that same feeling  still know me, you see?  There you have it again for...
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
48
the beast that tooverbeest... from the past!
Now I say this all too narrow and too specific: it was not so;  it was only a moment something that shot through me, something of an odor and a color and
sound... once it was gone, and now I only know that it was, as I tell you.
That's always true, with childhood memories.  I was nine years old when I was born in Holland, went to India, and beyond me I only know what I, Java, drew, and I missed it...
Now, I love Italy, now I know what I did, child of ten years, missed in India...
I loved that the sun was shining.  The sun, oh it was something improper,
something hidden in Holland, even in summer the sun shone!  Staâge but the sun,
that there was something divine!  A child does not suffer from the heat and I, I worshiped the sun.
The sun had me as a divinity.  The sun in the blue sky seemed to me God himself
to his view at least!  The sun was a god, and the moon was his wife!
But now that I love Italy, I know that, although the Indies me to the enchanted sun, although the Indies gave me back the South, which I was mysteriously banished, I
in India missed the Latin south, and now I know why then, in India, a
oleander was dear to me than a tropischen flamboyant (Tree with crimson
flowers).
There was something to the child of ten years in India what it lacked,
but it was not: there was not the memory of temples and gods, to
palaces and sepulchres deposited endless ways to arenas, parades and
ceremonies...
There was the sun, and it was the South, but the South without emotion and
without memory, and yet I was the child of parents in India.
Now only I know, perfect for childhood lucky to have been able to live perfectly happy boyhood, I was then ten years old, had been to Italy
must go, and not to India, even though the sun shone.
Yet there was in India for me something good: I felt there me if
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
49
a small green embryo, maturing;  there swelled something in me, and the smile that always glimpte in my little soul, was slightly brighter, joy of life.
I found our home more beautiful than in The Hague, because it was larger and garden
was very big and there were flowering oleanders.  A 'Oleander'... it told me something.
I found it nice, because I got a Bendie and a horse.  I liked the school is happy, the play because the hours were very long - even in a very big garden -
and because I got pocket money, and a Chinese, quietly sold in an opening of the hedge, scrumptious cookies, white balls full Javanese sugar.
I found me a mister at once, because I was white trousers, lacquered
wore shoes in the evening, and mead was allowed visits to the opera and children's balls.
But most of all I liked the school very nice: a whole world for me yet
the Dutch school recalled, and because it struck me at once something that was not in Holland, and I understood having to conceal at home, there never having to
speak, not even my mother.  Life went there before me;  the boys, me, when I arrived, were getting very stupid, taught me the secrets and
the wise never among the great men, saying words, and all were,
either love little girls, either whole swagger with the babu's home to their mothers or sisters, or else they had friends at school, very intimate friends.  All this together made me the impression that the life opened up to me whether I realized very life, if only the lives of boys and girls, children:
actually much more interesting than the lives of great and old people, I thought.
I understood that I had to be careful at home, nothing had to notice many things, what I already knew;  although there were things I did not understand well.
A great emotion at school was me, when we were taught mythology.
For nothing has taught me, so I have an enchanted emotion known as when the Olymp opened for me and I saw all these gods and goddesses.  I thought it was something
glorious, listened attentively, wrote everything down, was in a fever to all those sudden beauty.
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
50
My father interfered more with me.  We learned in school French, and German,
and dad felt crazy and he wanted to learn English.  He then took a novel, I
do not know who: Agincourt, called the book an historical story, and let me read once, teaching me the pronunciation and grammar in every word.  It was very different than at school, but I read of English within a week, and within
a few months I read fluently any English books.  My father had an incredibly quick way to teach something;  later he taught me so Latin and Greek, but he had forgotten his Greek lot, I've never really known Greek
and never read.
Five years passed my school and boys living in Batavia, when I went with my
parents back to Holland.  And I hated it in Holland.  I believe that every child Indiesch coming to Holland, to find it so.  The smaller house,
the hole of a garden, no cars and no horses;  I no longer Bendie and horse;  two girls and a servant instead of thirty servants, I thought it was terrible, did not understand, thought that my parents were ruined and did not believe that this was not the case.  And the school, the Hoogere-Burgerschool!  The boys had a smell to me at all: I found that they were not performing ablutions, and
passioneele dramas were no longer there was no mention of women,
they were not in love with girls, and no one had an intimate friend.  I saw with
scorn them all down upon, she found"children", and very dull and boring.  It was at that time that the glimpse extinguished in my soul until much later that spark hergloeid.  I learned very poorly in school, until I finally took private lessons with Dr.  Ten Brink: lessons that I will always remember me, lessons that all the beauty of literature and art began to open up for me...
But those are not the memories of the first years, the first, the
young child-years, all the soft and teederen blossom shooting of the first
jeugdigheden that me joyful, where I, quite useless, think back and dream in the empty hours as the fluweeldoezel dark ones go in my room, or, as in the dimly-Louis Couperus, The swallows perched down upon...
51
ring of southern sunset, over there in the West a wistful ashes
of gold goes down seven of the few cal heavens, fading as fields
violets are.
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
52
Kindersouvenirs
Outside blowing a violent mistral, the rabid North Wind our south, a wind,
who gets through the chimneys and shaking the windows... the weather is to stay close to the fire, and I drink tea with my wife and say,
- I hope that no one will disturb us... We are so cozy, too
dreams, with the wind.  With such cold weather; at this time, I always think back to my childhood...
- I also, quite frequently thick... my wife says.
We are cousins ​​and have known each other like children: we have
played together, we danced together at children's balls, we still have our children's portraits: she, a marquise-toiletje, a marquisetje eight years,
gepoeierd with a beauty spot on the cheek;  I, as a page, and I remember the package that my sisters had made me black velvet with yellow satin Creve and I was very proud of the first transvestite.
- Tell me, I say;  tell me Deli...
- Oh, my wife says, and she shudders, hands just for the face.  Those three
s Deli in... I will never forget them.  I was ten, thirteen years old when we left.  I've had so romantically childhood, I really do not necessary
had read books of Gustave Aimard... it was like a book of Gustave
Aimard... Dad had become administrator... the first tobacco company... He
there was already a year beforehand gone, and then we came back: Mom with us
children, I the oldest, and a governess... Dad had built a big house, perched on piles of wood - the other houses were of bamboo,
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
53
and the house was a kind of spit in the river, with water on all sides.  Since around the barns, the fields, and around us the forest, the mystery,
the desolation... Even though it was pressure for us, the supervisors, the minders,
three hundred coolies were... Between those three hundred coolies, we some
Europeans abandoned... Close by, on the river, lived an eccentric, a
Frenchman a explorateur, in a small house, all alone, and between our house and his was a small graveyard: there his wife was buried, and there bury my little brother... So strangely quiet down, that little cemetery, zoo  near... in the forest, deep, deep into the Batak had withdrawn... it was
pacified, such as it was called, but every time they got up, the Batak against the Kompenie, who had taken them off their land, and then they undertook predators and
... Each murder tours were murders, atrocities, in the
perimeter... You got used to it, the horror... I lived among the
terrors... Imagine: we alone, between three hundred coolies... If they had made even riots!  Besides, companies in the area you always hear
the most horrible news... who was killed with his wife and children;  which was
tortured in a horrible way... Fifteen minutes drive from us was off the
encampment: a captain, two lieutenants and a handful of soldiers... And behind the forest, with the ever-threatening danger... Under our house, between the poles,
which was built for the moisture was... prison.  Sometimes there was a
unwilling coolie there locked up for the night.  Then I heard him below me
cursing, screaming, yelling, stomping, stairs... I was shivering with fear in my den
bed... I was a frail child, but I got a Spartan upbringing.  Five
minutes sure the house was the bathroom, big, bamboo, by the river.  I
was already unsafe, so far, so in the face of the impending danger.  And because I was the dark scared, Papa said sometimes, in the evening:
- Small... I think I left my cigar case in the bathroom, go get him once...
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
54
I went with a beating heart.  Through the black garden, they darkening
fields, to the sombre river to the bathroom... I thought I saw the white pontianaks ghosts, with her bleeding breasts and loose hair, on water and
between the black trees.  And shivering I brought Dad his cigar case back, which he had deliberately forgotten there.  We always had wild horses.  A passion
Dad was to tame wild horses.  He flexed them a Bendie, and I
had to sit next to him..."Do not be afraid, little;  Never fear..."And I was always afraid... How many accidents I am not ended... 'Rampant'
Horses running wild;  breaking axles, falling down Bendie's... then I grabbed Dad's
hands that were holding the reins;  which of course was very stupid of me, very
dangerous.  Sometimes you could hear the tigers at night, around the house, screaming chen, tragi ash and furious, as immense cats...... Once I looked through the blinds I saw a...
tiger... The beast crept away from the house, disappeared into the night... I, trembling, went immediately say to daddy... The next morning would dad with supervisors
and keepers go on the tiger hunt... They looked for traces... When it turned out that the tracks were not tiger paws, but... plain human hands!  The
tiger had been a spy in a tiger skin, a spy of the Batak.  We found sometimes in the morning, nailed to the posts of the house, which her blood... That was a polite warning.  It reported that there was famine in the
forest, among the Batak, and that they wanted rice.  Then Daddy sent to the forest, to study... Yeah, they wanted rice from the 'great sir... Now, well, rice one would give them... and then they were given rice, and the threat  was again turned away.  One night, the tom-tom, which gave the signal fire!  And dad was
right away!  In the dark night we saw when the fierce fire
coffee barns, blazing to heaven, immense red and yellow flames... Were
the evildoers who had kindled the fire?  Our house was very confident
... Never spared the arsonists have been discovered.  ... When the great party amok, near... The admini-Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
55
clerk of the tobacco company there killed with his wife, his
children... And one of the employes that bleeding, bleeding, fled from us,
serve mum covenant, and we did it vreeslijke story, the horrible
story of the murder of the abomination, and how the crooks had the children
gagged, tortured, that it would say that the father's money
Saved... Between these horrors I lived, I lived for three years... And yet, though I was afraid, I thought it was 'interesting'... I was a Romanesque child, and I found it 'interesting'..  .When we lived later in Buitenzorg, I found proved life, without interest, and without emotion, without spies dressed as tigers,
without bloody warnings to our doors, without killing, without fire,
and I longed back to the house on the headland at the river yonder in Deli...
Zoo told my wife: the mistral whistled through the chimney, tore the
windows, and it was dark in our room, where the sibilant dying
fire opkronkelde with long, stretchy tongue.
- I do not have such romantic children's souvenirs, I said.  No, my childhood were more cherished: I was spoiled mama's baby, and my older sister, who
it was sweet, but often quite witty, I then called by many names: the
"Wretch,"the"last vertebra of the tail,"and"greenhouse plant;  all because I the youngest, was the youngest of so many children.  I do not have a lot of interesting souvenirs, but still, sometimes all at once, I remember... So I remember this: we were in India, I was then a child of nine years.  And I went with Mom to the old town, to a Chinese furniture maker;  a joiner, who was very handsome, which
sculpted, and antique furniture, so if you sometimes find in the compound,
collected, sold and namaakte.  He was very nice carving: I remember
yet, how beautiful I liked it, though I was only a child.  Well, I went with mom
to him, to choose antique chairs... He received mommy very polite, so
as does a Chinese merchant, with bends and
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
56
many flattering words.  But suddenly, when he saw me, he gave a little, as if something struck him, and then bowed deeply to me, three, four times, and he called his wife and his sons, and worshiped all getting very deep for me, with  flattering words and gestures of profound respect.  I will never forget it... I was a child of nine years, and bending Chinese made a very deep impression on me...
Then said my mother, wondering:
- Why bend so for my boy, say baba, and why you bend wife
and your sons so for him?
And the Chinese joiner then said, saluting:
- Ms Groote, we bow before your son, the little gentleman because he
noticeable signed fortunately sign a whole.  Did not that great
Mrs?  Look, the little gentleman has in his hair, on his forehead, a
kruintje, a twisted curl, like everyone has one behind his
mind.  Thus a kruintje for, on the forehead, is a very rare and very lucky sign.  The little gentleman was extremely happy signed.  Because of the kruintje indicates in advance that he has a"great soul"...
- Baba, my mother said;  You should not make vain my boy;  he will be too proud, if you say to him now that he has a"great soul"...
And myself, very impressed, I figured out what it could be: a great
soul"to have, and I was looking boy of nine years, in me my 'great soul'...
Then the Chinese joiner, very seriously:
- So I do not mean it, great lady... Perhaps, that I in Malay
not very well say: I would say in my language, that kruintje front the little gentleman teekent as having a"great soul." By this I mean that the small
Mr. happy to be in life that awaits him, as will his soul"big"and will see around him, and will see all the beauty there is in the world and in man.  The 'great souls', who see that thus, the poets and the
artists: they mimic the
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
57
nature and life after, and imitations have been happier.  Their souls are 'great' because they see a lot and understand much, and in turn provide much of what they
receive;  because the 'great souls' are mild.  And because they receive and give, and see and admire and imitate, they are happy, life is happier than
many other people: they are the blessed of the gods, and the gods
love them...
So, literally, the Chinese joiner said, later I understood all his words;  But when I was still very impressed, because his sons great
Chinese boys, but were smiling at me and flexing and pointing to my kruintje front.
My mother was a sweet, simple woman.  I saw her head slightly
frowning;  and I understood that she was afraid that the Chinese joiner me too much praised and admired for my kruintje front, as she sometimes frowned, when relatives and friends said that I was a very sweet boy...
But while my mother turned the conversation now and the sculptured
chairs early, I approached the altar at the back of the shop.
The Chinese boys smiling and courteous, surrounded me... And I looked,
to the great saint Chinese plate, the plate of the gods bless me
would and would love.  They were two Gods: the one was good-natured fat,
smiling, white, pink, in beautiful golden robe, with, lips, long
hangsnorren...
The other, behind him heaving transmission, crumpled up, and grinned, terrible,
with bloodshot eyes, black and scarlet red of face and hair
and beard, and he stretched clawing fingers, sharp, long nails...
The Chinese guys stakes in slender vases incense sticks: that wafted
fine blues upwards.
Through the smoke grinned the black god, and the rosy, fat god smiled good-naturedly
me.
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
58
I looked confidently, to the gods that I would 'bless you' and 'love', because I had a kruintje front.
The goedigen god I found love and the black was not really scared me;  I
found him honor comical than creepy, with its vuurrooden beard, and I found his robe, black, gold and red, very beautiful...
- That's one of my souvenirs, I said.  My kruintje front with thinning now quite out of my hair, but although my soul so very much
'Greater' than other souls, even though I myself even humbly count among
"Small", the very 'small' souls, I have surely found the happiness that
provided Chinese joiner: lucky enough to see and understand, to
give and receive happiness, so may feel like poets and artists,
For all the beauty of man, the world and life...
Outside the mistral tugged at the windows, and inside, while I threw wood on the fire, which blazed hell up, I saw the gentle smile of my wife...
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
59
Melancholieën
This is the last month, these are the last days...
About heaven from Nice has already swept the laughing blue road, and during
almost a month, the sky is already a plain, pregnant rain, always rain pregnant
greyness, a low sad air, from the wet missed down upon trickle down or unnaturally warm balmy rains poured from the broken locks up.
The sky has not even the romantic north cal, savage beauty
the northern overcast skies, cloud countries seem: gloomy Walhalla's where
we, down, hear the ride of the Valkyries with the heavy thud of hooves
winged steeds sky to cloud cloud;  the sky is gray with violet
immense, floating cloud monsters that seem to titanic uphill stacks
Hollandsche overcast skies, the sky of this country, this rainy month, nothing
then a plain, low, sad, defenseless shade, beauty defenseless grayness, from which it seeps from which the landfill, in the morning, in the afternoon, at night...
Where are the enchanting sunsets: the tales of the golden islands,
drove rosy ether seas??
They are verzwijmd in the monotonous, low, water seventh greyness...
And hue of charge and without beauty as the sky, the sea.
The sea storms, but without beauty.  Our beautiful blue sea, either
calm as a lake glazes either opsteigerend with parades of Poseidon ic steeds,
a mud-colored storm water mass, which rise oppressive
mud tanks.
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
60
The swollen, flooded rivers, the Rhone, the Var, the Paillon, have mud and silt carried away and deposited in our otherwise wonderful sea, and the sea of ​​mud, under the layers of plain sky wet grayness seems an infernally more out of the Inferno: this  infernal Styx lake of dirty black mud, which souls are plunged,
who surrendered during her earthly life to acedia or accidia: the spleen, the melancholy of the Middle Ages, and complain:
Sad understated
We are in sweet air, illuminated by joyful sun:
Internally always omvlogen by slow smoke:
Thands we should weep in the black mud...
So it seems to me our otherwise lovely, classically beautiful sea a muddy puddle full of sadness slow and smelly mud, and where me differently between the gracefully curling waves, Sirens and Nereids seem to smile, looking my eye now, in the
gray night, the Dantesque, lamenting itself of wrenching souls in Hell heavy
Punctured melancholy.
* * *
Because Dante in his Inferno, does the Melancholy penalties and immerses the mourners
in the underworld cal quagmire - and the gods of the upper world, punish the
Melancholieken by depriving their joy at the beauty of life...
But... it's a circle.  Because if life and the world over not clean
are, my soul can feel no joy, and if she feels no joy, she is melancholy, and omvliegt me slow smoke and I went into the black mud
my melancholy...
* * *
I went out because I go out every day.  I went through the puddles of
between the streets dripping melancholy, himself
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
61
hurrying men.  The mud flows in streams along the sidewalks, rain
flowing beads in sets of points of umbrellas.  I read in the moisture
steam-using, of human breath and wet clothes doorwalmde despatch-halls
the newspapers the last telegrams: they report that there is cholera in Italy and plague in Basket Schoening Barbary;  a beloved queen is seriously ill, and that there is a murder
held in Marseilles;  they reporting strikes and floods and
my disaster, they report sadness, and fear for even more sadness, for all kinds of misery, disaster, accident... And I hasten away, and now gone past the
dripping Promenade along the quagmire of Melancholy, I run to
House...
* * *
Outside chatting rain down upon in a frenzy as the rain spirits above all
their urns have hurled in fury against one another, it is a waterfall, a Niagara up.
In my place playing the flames of the fire, slow stretching himself, as small
dancing fairies of fire, and hinted the omkapte lamps.
Because I do not work, I do not want more light than the twilight;  I would sit with my little dancing fairies and I want to immerse myself in my melancholy...
I can not but be melancholy.  Life, the world be without
beauty, without joy.  To think that there is a dream and illusion.
There is nothing but ugliness, sadness, misery and disease...
These are the last days...
I feel dull and tired and listless... I'm certainly sick... oh, sure I get sick... And I have not worked these last days and feel a void, a dissatisfaction with my work defenseless life, which continues  drag of rainy rainy on my
matt body, which is going to be sick...
It's Christmas soon and then-Year Old, because they are the last days...
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
62
There was sometimes poetry in Christmas - as it was snowing and freezing in Holland and
shimmering, twinkling Christmas tree was glad my children's eyes... What is that Lang
ago!  There was sometimes poetry in Old-Year, at a long table with champagne and glasses, which sounded between heilwenschende family members and friends...!
What's that long ago...!
Who are the ghosts that arise there in the twilight glow of omkapte
lamps, which come out of furniture among the shadows, half illuminated by the
afglansingen of small dancing vurefeeën about my wood fire...
It is the ghosts of the Dead... They are the shades of gray my Father,
My mother adored;  they are the ghosts of sister, brother and friend... and
between their shadows are the Commemorations the pale ghosts...
What is the room full of ghosts and phantoms...
My silent, staring eyes are filled with tears and I feel old and tired and scared.
I feel scared me...
For now it's still so sweet to me, there is still so much love around me, so much gentleness, tenderness, so much intimate feeling...
But once...
I will be all alone...
For this purpose... I'm afraid...
Once I will truly are old and tired and sick.  And only...
To me, everyone died, who loves me now, now lives for me and for whom I live...
And I'll be an old, sick, abandoned, lonely man, surrounded by some
books, always the same, and I will be hesitant to sit by a fire like this, and my chamber will, O, are crowded with ghosts and ghouls and ghosts and shadows, in a
last night like this...
It will be somewhere in Italy...
It will be somewhere in the land that I love as no country.
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
63
But it will, pride love to have my loneliness, the solitude, and the doellooze age.
I will not work anymore, not create more;  my hand shall be languid, my eye
dull, dry my mind, and my soul will be a lingering winter.
And long, long years, so I will have in my Melancholy and Commemoration, advanced
languish, while all slower and slower the fire fairies dancing for me himself will stretch across the cooling blocks...
That is the last for which I'm afraid...
The latter days will come...
Now... it's only fear... now... now it's still sweet and tender and intimate around me.  Now... now she came in and she says:
- These are the last days... We will not celebrate Christmas, and Old-Year Evening
we may be... the night train to Rome!  You should not be sad: after all, we go to Rome!!  And you'll forget once that Christmas was not pleasant this year, and we old-Year-evening will perhaps have celebrated alone,
with two of us, and a glass of Asti-Spumante, in the restoration of the car
night train...
So will it be, perhaps, this year.  No Christmas is celebrated because the furniture is placed away because the bags are packed.  Year-old in the train to Rome!
Rome! Rome!!
And yet...
Proud of the beloved City perspective there, immerse my soul in
Melancholy and continues to weep in the black mud...
Is it my secret fear, my fear, I do not say?
Is it because I have not worked, because I feel sick, sluggish and tired and weary...
Is it... because it's raining... because it is a month of rains day after day, night
night, and since I run the Sun, my God, can not live?
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
64
I do not know, I do not know...
... These are the last days...
... And if you read this, the last day will be done...
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
65
Sparks and sequins
If a cruel fatality forced me to, certainly for many difficult choice between the loss of this or this sense, I would not hesitate.  I should be willing to keep four sentences with the sacrifice of the hearing.
For me uncomfortable would be the lack of Smell, taste and touch, and
miserable would make me want Face.
But the loss of my hearing, I would get used to me.
Because we see in our world still many beautiful things and a lot of important,
but they hear not much more beautiful.  Perhaps thou, O my readers who lives in The Hague, city, where more Euterpe was held in pure honor, but I,
Nice to dwell in, and do not know what a concert, I hear so little beauty
to me, that I would get used to me the loss of my hearing.
Especially because the sounds that I hear are quite ugly.  They are barking dogs, honking cars, trams ringing, screeching kids (we have when we
children were ever so gekrijscht as today's kids screaming chen??): they are almost always very ugly noises.  Organs are almost unknown here, but (so happens to be the man) so greasy, raw drens of an organ,
which aftjengelt the Juive or Trouvère, I sometimes think even amuzant (a
away) and I miss here the organ as much as the noble concert.  So now
Once the man.  So I am.  Gay sum... That signifies to you that no Latin
know I am a mass of contradictions...
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
66
I would have to hear to get used to me not modern cacophony of ugly
sounds.  But I would rather be dead than to miss the charm of a
sunset beautiful ones, of an antique statue of a noble building of a southern landscape or tenderness in the eyes of those who love me... I would not accustom me to blindness, but to languish away...
With this spark I exposed a secret fear: imagine that I was blind
and there was not deaf at!!
* * *
Now a gayer pailletje, though it is black...
See here the black pailletje:
Elegance is the innate harmony-of-grace between something or someone and
its purpose or use.  Elegance is, between that purpose or use and that someone or something, one totally aimless and always innate harmony-of-grace.  amnesty
are learned, not elegance.  It is elegant born, something is elegantly created;  one does not learn to elegance;  something that is created inelegant, can never be distorted into something elegant.
A fashionably dressed lady can be inelegant, a coal carrier can be elegant.
Ye all have ever seen inelegant, fashionably dressed ladies.  I've seen elegant coal carriers.
I will describe to you.  It was in Geneva, at the lake, at the embarkadère
Steamboat.  There coal were loaded by four, five carriers: two of it
Were elegant.
They certainly were brothers and they were Italians.  She wore a broad,
Stairs belt, a large, brown corduroy pants, which fell close to their boots, firm and well cut.  They wore corduroy pants over a black vest without sleeves;  their necks, their arms were bare.  They both had a
splendid neck, and they had magnificent poor, lithe, long muscles,
which flowed like rivers branched from their hill heavy shoulders to theirs
wrists.  The hue of their faces was their neck and arms with black pigment
gefardeerd, powerful young brown.  They both had black sparkle-
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
67
eyes, and she wore a brown cloth bag over their heads;  pocket cut very
becoming their head above the twinkling eyes down, and fell like a straight fold down upon their backs.
They arrived while I strolled along the boat and I was struck by their elegance.  They were two very elegant coal carriers.  They were two smart guys, and I found them much more elegant than myself who pack ran flâneeren there in a spotless white serge.  And what was so nice was this: they were even more elegant when they went to work.  There was a carriage horse, and the car was loaded with
brown bags full of coal or large, square briquettes rather, because the bags were regular, oblong quadrangular.  A guy on the wagon loaded the bags of coal
on the shoulders of the bearers.  And when my two elegant coal carriers themselves, the
arms, head down upon, hitched up their thigh and calf muscles, heavy
receive bags on their broad necks, they were even more elegant;  they became
as two elegant acrobats;  their movement was very graceful in harmony with the purpose of that movement.  They were then, two amazing smart guys, with their bags on their backs against aanrustende mind, the gangplank, the
steamboat, and was their dressy their hands not to cling to the bag, but
the bag to keep balance on their mind, upon their necks, arms
a little away from the body in a vigorous gymnastic swinging and so,
with hips a little dandineerende, a light trot, the gangplank, to run on the steamer.
With their empty bags they came dandineerende, after a few minutes back
and reiterated their elegant, vigorous maneuver.  I repeat, taking two
amazing guys were smart, elegant two coal carriers.  I stood there and
admired them, and presumably they understood that, because their bag on their necks and
dandineerende, the arms separate from the body, she smiled at me with self-awareness.
They knew that they were beautiful, and quite elegant.
Luckily my friend Jan, who has mania
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
68
make snapshots.  And I said to my friend Jan:
- Jan, take a snapshot of these two elegant coal carriers, will you?
And coal carriers, I asked:
- Will you just pozeeren before sir?
That she, flattered did in their self-consciousness.  And Jan took a few snaps
the elegant two coal carriers, with bag, no sack, in the car and on the
gangway and I gave them a few francs, and promised them a snapshot, portrait,
in a few days.
But I was, despite what I saw was beautiful, a little melancholy.
I thought of myself as less elegant in my white serge, I coal carriers
had found in their black vest, corduroy pants and bare arms.  But when my friend came to Orlando (we would make a tour along the lake), and
while we took all three on the boat, I saw Orlando Glunder smiling.
- Why are you laughing so Glunder, Orlando?  I asked.
Then he said:
- You aloof there so nice, Gigi, your white suit, with your beautiful Panama, at which
two black guys.  You're a type, though!
And comforted me in my melancholy, that Orlando had found that I had
so"nice"had stood in white, Kontras tar income against two black but
very elegant, coal carriers.
I am after all a vain man, dear readers, and this dark, pitch black pailletje, I let flicker here for you, it shows weêrglansje of my vanity.
* * *
I do not suffer excessive haughtiness of caste feeling.  I can admire some coal carriers and talk with them amicably;  I talk to my coachmen, I
make jokes André le Pêcheur, a fisherman from Nice, who"lutteur 'is;  I'm good friends with the kondukteurs of the tram.  But I do not fond of
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
69
to meet retailers and commerçants Nice in Casino, Opera and other
worldly places and sit beside them.  This feeling absolutely no need for the Hague commerçants and retailers who will see me would be to
detuning;  they are very different from their French (Republican) colleague's;
They feel instinctively that there is some distance between me and them, distance as natural and as logiesch again the distance between a prince of the blood and me.  With the different nuances and steps there between.
So I'm not overly proud of my more or less"significant birth '
and I talk jovial with a few coal carriers, but to come detesteer at Casino sit next to the teacher, which to me only that afternoon with a few pieces of soap
sold for the merchant, who repaired me my eyeglasses, behind my
"Chapelier"aside from my tailor and my shoemaker.  Yet this often happens here in Nice, Nice republican.  However, the soap lady looks at me
encouraging and sympathetic, and seems a little surprised that I did not
greeting;  I do not see the optician, and chapelier do not see me by chance our deployment, but my tailor whispers to me:
- I see that you are wearing your new tuxedo, and truly, she is REALLY good!
And my shoemaker lisps in his turn, confidential:
- Are these patent-leather boots are too tight, sir, and you sit here nice and neat?
I grin, left and right.  I'm out of my temper, gecrispeerd, and stand after the first act in order not to come back.  Outside, I think one of my
favori-cochers-the-place station, the Gros-Blond, I'm kidding with
him, and he joked familiarly back without gecrispeerd I am.  Analyze itself, reader, why one and why the other;  I do not know.  I only let you shine spark my strange contradiction.
By the Gros-Blond into good mood, I step in his
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
70
trolley and head to the popular Italiaansche Opera, in Politeama, where Fr. 0.75 pays for a recliner d'orchester.  I'm fond, although already a bit
cramped in this little room, perfumed with aromas of garlic and
mandarin oranges and doorwalmd of goedkoopen smook my overcoat on the new
tuxedo to mask too great chic and I see that in my
orchestra-chair 'Rigoletto' is to hear next... Marius Parasol, commissionaire and porter from the station, pomaded his solid head, shaved his jovial
cheeks, pocketed his martial mustaches - which has the habit, when I return from the trip home, lugging my bags to my room.  Well, I'm very times not gecrispeerd and 'pride', but I reach the hand to Marius Parasol, which reaches me his firm fist and watch beside him, pleasurable, according to the Rigoletto, sung with good voices among decorations of a dime, in costumes  cotton velvet
and sateen.  And I amuzeer precious to me, while I, just now in the Casino Municipal, gecrispeerd was terrible, from my temper and was bored.
Why??
I do not know yet the reader.  Amuses you this contradiction here with me
te analyzeeren?
Could it be, I thought to get into the Casino on an on- what aristocratic
place - my place - and leur was made?  While I was able to get into the Politeama on a very nice democratic place - in place - and asked not became leur, even me my overcoat over my tuxedo somewhat stuffy??
Maybe it's not more complicated than that.
And the whole gevalletje no more than several weêrschijntje, this loovertje and pailletje in the to and fro shiny little sparkles of a composite nature have...
But not complex than we all are, I believe, with our tegenstrijdigheidjes, humor and little stemminkjes, that sparkle to and fro and sparks and weêrschijntjes
conjuring up the spangles of our four-, five-, zesdubbele, gepailletteerde soul.
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
71
How a serial... is not written
Yes, surely thou think, dear reader, it is getting very easy!  That absolutely no effort is on every Saturday on the rez-de-chaussée of the Fatherland, the
evening, bell much to be prezent with something new: now with an historical novelletje, sometimes with an impression, a joke, a causerie!
Now, I want you here, if it interests you, a glimpse into my workshop... (in my 'factory', I hear even express an evil there)... to convince you, O faithful Saturday Serbian friends, how  the fabrication is sometimes very difficult, how
whole time but is not"shake off the sleeve,"though, and how sometimes a serial,
geconcepieerd it was... was not written, at least not been completed,
for this reason or that.
So join in and see, belongs... Look, I had started (it was
during my summer vacation, which is not a vacation for me!) a serial of Geneva, for example, where I was staying in August.  I had a spotless white paper put this title: Geneva, and I wrote... I wrote half
page that I follow here late... They were:
Geneva
There are male and female cities cities: London, for example, is a
male city, Berlin also, Stockholm Also, even Madrid also Milan, also St.
Petersburg.  Paris is a city female;  Florence, Venice and Nice cities are female...
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
72
Nice is among the cities, a very feminine city, as Nice is the cocotte among female-cities, a superb half-Mondai-ne...
- See, so, I thought, and read about what I wrote in my cozy guest room,
where I saw about 'le bleu Geneva;  that's a nice start;  I'm stuck, I can go on shore... That serial about Geneva will definitely be getting very nice.  And I further wrote:
And so I would also like to state of Geneva, that she is a woman under the
cities, but once I might add that Geneva has nothing of a
demi-mundane and a cocotte.  No, this friendly, prosperous, fresh and
good-looking town (without any drew silhouette characteristic spiers and towers, without a single line of originality), sits calm and amiable to the bend of her beautiful lake, against green of aanvallige to surroundings -
hills and parks and gardens - so if a calm amiable, well-preserved, friendly and prosperous 'lady' of good family would sit in the garden of her posh villa, with a clear pond, where her children and grandchildren boating with sail boats and motor boats between  the stately gedrijf many snow goose feather on.  The friendly, prosperous 'lady' amiable smiles down upon it and playing gedrijf, because she is happy, she is healthy, she is rich: she lives in a stately villa-house in a beautiful park with a lovely water feature;  and their children and children's children are happy, healthy and wealthy, the whole family is on the
sojourner who is a guest at her, that impression of not complain to have this under moon vale of tears.
It is therefore that a stranger gladly accept an invitation from this
prosperous, friendly 'lady' to come out a little longer on her stay with them.  It is
far from unpleasant to come stay with them at Mrs. Geneva.  It's nice
to all the little excursions that the friendly hostess arranges for you.  at
sample all the delicious water rides on its lake (I think the trips by steamboat to Ouchy, Territet, Evian,
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
73
the whole lake along);  mountain trips to the Rochers de Naye or even to
Chamonix;  car rides by her aanvallige green possession.  Mrs. Geneva
has everything from large purse so pleasantly arranged for you, that you every
day of your stay you can make another trip, another trip, another chuckle, and when the hostess asks you, with the gentle smile on posh
matronegelaat:
- I hope you are not too much bored with me??
Can you not help but courteous answers:
- Ma'am, how could I be bored with me o!  After all, you do anything to your
make guests so enjoyable.
So far I was then at Geneva, with my essay about Geneva;  I read-across
what I had written;  I nodded, vain and self-satisfied, 'non-evil!
non-evil"... I pleasantly took the pen to continue writing, and I thought to myself...
Geneva... Yes, we need to tell a bit of Rousseau, Voltaire, Madame
De Staël and... Calvin, when we talk about Geneva: Now, you know, I care about no
of those ladies and gentlemen, so I'm there with three words off...
Back then...
When suddenly...
Oh, readers, when suddenly... there was a knock at my door.
- Entrez!  distrait I cried, thinking how can I not tell too many evil Calvin would, and thinking that a soubrette already brought me my afternoon tea...
Back then...
When suddenly...
Oh, reader, the door opened my room and...
No soubrette appeared with tea leaf...
Nor Calvin me already in advance vengeful ghost...
But...
But, oh, readers...
The great figure of my friend Orlando afteekende located in the opened small
by.
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
74
- Orlando!  I exclaimed, surprise and joy.  Orlando!!  I thought you only get three days would!!!
- I've wanted to surprise, smiled and calmly Orlando;  and I am with the
automotive, and if you want to come here would bring to locate a dealer, then
I would find that very kind of you.
Well readers, I quickly switched my fantastiesch summerhouse robes (light blue
flannel with dark red satin lapel: very original, very bold, and really easy) for a less colorful automobielpak and...
The serial about Madam Geneva was not written!
* * *
I was back in Nice, incognito.
And I thought on a Wednesday-morning:
- Now I have to write my serial Really... otherwise it will be too late.  What I will talk about, to-day?  Well, I thought, to-day I will have to agree
... come on... yes... on The Sea.  So a little poëtiesch and lyriesch, which is now and then a nice variety.  A little melancholy and serious, which may
sometimes a few times.  And because I'm still of night boating in the
moonlight on the sea, with André le Pêcheur, passing fish... so boost
a calm sea silver in the moon;  a sea which will be covered with as great
silver visschenschubben... I will now begin my lofty
lyricism... and tomorrow, if I have gespelevaard André, finish the serial with which silver, more calm sea... and the moon... and the sirens et tout le reste... and so end up as a Mondscheinsonate.  ..if the comparison is not too bout...
So I began to write:
The sea
She has always, as the air, seduced me with the strange fascination with the almost anxious trepidation of her beauty, beko-Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
75
ring and reluctance to share infinity, but apparently, but for our purposes, the
Eternity itself.  If I see her, I not only think of eternity and
endlessness, but I see both of me, as I see them, I wen airborne cataracts, which float the distant sky.
She is not endless and it is not eternal, the sea, I see, but I have to think, to know its limited and temporary, and if I do not think, but only me give the trepidation, the temptation, it arouses  in me, I see her eternal and endless, and I'm no different than a shepherd of ancient times, which, resting on a rock, dreamed about her and seemed to know that she was an eternal, endless water,
foaming and bruischende the flat earth disk bathe: eternal, endless
water that is lost in heaven ocean and the ether...
omme And so as the ancient shepherd over his sheep gather, collect
my dreams, and I wander along the enchanting, huivere zoom that
infinity...
I know the North Sea, but I almost forget her.  She is, I seem to remember me, dark, serious and manly and fierce and strong, as a strong son of Njord, and I was afraid for her, for him, I would almost say.  The North Sea has...
never comforted me when I was young and suffered, and yet I have often cried my tears Werther with its dunes and beaches;  yet I wanted well with him in my youthful sorrows, but he never me geruischt the tender word;  the
barbarous, northern, strong pain sea, powerful, frowning, Northern
sea ​​god, which only toebruischte me that I had to be strong, but not erbarmde about my youthful complaining and not swayed me in maternal tenderness.
But I know the Mediterranean and has tegengeglimlacht me.  She was the
zonnegoudlokkige, solar smiling, female daughter of the king's seas,
Poseidon, and she had me sweetly soothing and lush mild: zooming along hers is the life to come to me, as I never allow it to come to me saw
along the northern borders of its barbarous water
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
76
brother Njord.  Along her zooming came out to meet me Life laughing, as
a beautiful lush woman who gave the slip of her brocade cloaks me flowers and fruits, and which was surrounded by beauty and joy, by laughing
youths and maidens dancing and singing children;  joyous procession, torsende
so many gifts that I can not mention, and whose wealth not estimated
could be because they especially the priceless things are the things of line, of
color, and feel the things of emotion and love...
So far I was then come to Nice with my essay on The Sea.
Back then...
When suddenly...
Oh, readers, when I suddenly and looked out...
And was aware that dark clouds were gathering over the whole heaven...
That behind those clouds the pale dagmaantje had already swooned and volatilized,
a clear mind right...
And a furious mistral, raised suddenly, the last golden
Autumn leaves of the plane trees in a raging dance mead dragged along the avenue,
where stofkolkjes eddy flatulence and circular fakirs in omme tumbled...
How now?
In Eenen I got up...
Would the light mane evening and the lake-calm sea, with André, in his boat, La
Jeune Jeannette, then not met that night??
I grab a jacket, a cap...
I rush outside to sea...
Hu!  What a wind, what a raging mistral, and what a sea, what a wicked sea
in our Bay of Angels!
Is that the sun gold laughing Middelland Nietzsche, daughter of Poseidon?
No.  - The sea is Really like a little brother of Njord.
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
77
Look, a high foaming wave chatting with a winding ridge on the railing of the Promenade, and almost collapsed on me down upon.
I hasten to the Rocher de Cancale: this is a pub and restaurant, where
I know they will find at this time Andre.
And I like Andre, ge-installed for a huge plate of sausage with macaroni.
- André, I say to my friend the fisherman, who is also lutteur of Appeal, and, proud in his early twenties, Impozant looks like a young wrestler might look like, who is aware of his strength and onlegbaarheid;  Andre... what do you think of this again?
- Well, duc!  jokes André, (for he always gives the duke seem Title I);  If you have desire, I want to take you from your night on the Jeune Jeannette,
but... we will not catch fish, you know... and the moon will be angry and the sea
also...
Now collapsed outside a genre of hailstorm down upon on the Blue Coast, which
Nice-cal journalists always decorate their eternal 'printemps et éternel
Flowery '... In...
The serialization of the Sea... has not been written since the duc there for thanked
his ducal life to venture to such raging elements, even on the side
of his faithful friend, André le Pêcheur, l'Invincible!
And because great things come in threes, and because I give you a complete picture
give control of how a serial... is not written:
I give you here, O reader, in the hope that you will not become drowsy from such different matter, of such an olla-podrida if this serial you, one in Florence
written, well, unfinished serial.
It was titled:
A passion
And it began:
Reader, have you passions?  I am - happy!, I would hurry off
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
78
cry, because they might not always bring stormy tumult, not always desirable,
whats-wave swell in our lives that otherwise too annoying quietly between his ebb and flow would rock, and I have one, which I secretly you
now wants to entrust.
Because I have a passion for antique bronze and marble statues.  It is,
although never an unhappy passion, yet several times a passion that the
melancholy leave of parting, and the sadness of farewell, to the
very simple reason that I - when I'm in Italy - impossible to continue lodge itself in the muzeumzalen, where the objects reside in my passion.  Now I
or comfort myself with the thought that I from one object to the bronze
Other marble can go, but longer than, say, half an hour - this is getting very long!  - I can not sit for any of my passion object down upon or stand, so I do not want to arouse the suspicion of a superintendent or an attendant.
He would never be me or suspect of a marble or bronze sculpture under my arm
wanting to play chess, but he would still go at least suspect, that, if not
Non-sob, was still a little maniac - and he is here in which antique statues
concerned, do have a little bit right would - I do of course with a very innocent air everything in my power to hide my mania, and I have to go after
quarter of bronze or marble, which I love and adore, off, with a very indifferent face and the pain of goodbye in the heart.
Now I have surrounding me with copies and photographs of the objects of my
passions, but what are portraits of him who loved being itself can not see!  Scarcely a pale afschijn the true beauty that far then,
far is... in this case, in one or other muzeumzaal of Italy...
It's the passion, which I command you this day the secret public, and it is best
possible that you will find that passion sickly.  Well, let me say that I never want to trade my morbid passion for what would healthy
dispassion too,
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
79
and I, proud melancholiën of valedictorian and melancholy day of goodbyes,
am deeply happy by the glow, then this passion of mine, beautiful plastic adoring, soul, spreads...
* * *
Not true?  Was not that a nice start for a new serial?  And would
really do not have well been if I had further told how, in the Uffizi, sitting at the Dying Niobide which I so love her, would have seen that the young, beautiful, by cruel Apollo affected athlete, his dying eyes
opened themselves semi founded his veege attitude with me, who had him so dear, began to speak, to tell me, the sculptor that centuries ago
Skopas gebootst him and had cut the lines of his young slave,
the athlete had won awards for his master?
I would have described the picture, the dying out of the battle here
rebreathing divine image of that young Niobide whom I love: had this boy with his young face and his strong members, and the serial would be so aesthetic and historical value and have been engaged for a moment...
Why it has not been written, this serial??
I do not know, reader, I do not know: it was not written because it was not written!!
It was not written, like the other two.
Behold everything I know about it!
But I can not now a glimpse in my workshop... and in my 'factory', O evil??
Are you there to become drowsy?
Now, that's a good thing: your punishment for your wickedness!
In all CASES... I have my three non-polished serials ge-utilizeerd...
And you make a serial forged!!
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
80
the nights
Do not you strange nights?
You have perhaps never thought about it, but, if you think for a moment
on the nights that getting dark vaults above us will ge the nights
not strange?
I sometimes think the nights very strange.  I sometimes find it very strange that the night
is dark, and that a whole city is dark, and that the inhabitants of that city were all too embedded lay and sleep, that life is done for several hours, and a velvet peace spreads over us, as with gold stars are twinkling  dark cloak, holding diversified caring mother hands over us...
I find that sometimes almost weirder as the assumption that the sun would continue
shine, life would go on, the colorful life of steed cal men
noisy would continue moving through...
The night has always given me a certain anxiety sweep.
There is for me in the night, in her velvet silence, a certain fear that I
shudder doing and uithooren to aanritselende of sounds from afar...
There is in me the fear of the night, and there is in me a reverence for the night...
If I suddenly in the night drunk mannestemmen lollend hear shouting or whining
hear a dog barking, whose gejènk silence rips to shreds... scare me, or sacrilege is conducted.  In the night I feel something sacred that not so gross enormity of human or animal, shall be defiled.  because for
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
81
I stand the nights are often as dark temples, dusky, endless
colonnades, through which wanders a young god, clean as a Eros, but
shyer, with two slender wings handsome ash parents and a still burning
Torch in hand, he raises - and behind the halls of his palace, leaving him sleepwalking ye therefore err, like a shadow, stretching the other palaces out, you know it, the other halls, too obscure for halls of the own look
Death...
Zoo in the night, for me, holy...
The nights are so different to me as the day itself... No day is like living through the day;  Every day brings a new surprise, surprises, which
we spoiled by the ever-changing appearance and delusion, often do not consider, so that surprises a linked chain animal seems to us the monotony
of our lives... And so, when the days are different, so are the nights
different...
No night is my equal to the previous one.
I know the maternal nights.  They are dark, sweet, tender and salutary.  They usually follow on, our soul harmony, days, days in which we work
have to the Labour noodigen of our existence, or days in which we erred
have deliberately luck along hills of pine forests and olives groves high, from what we saw are the sea in wide, blue peace - or days in which those who we loved, were nearer to us, with the happy word that suddenly  light flashed on the vaguely suspected - with the warm glow of voting together
Motherly love... The nights are the harmonic days.  After the harmony of
the day is the night like a mother who is swift and hair dedicate mantle
arches above us... We are like her children, and I have hardly fear
her... I feel like a child, and in my dark room in my big bed, I lie small, knee raised, a child draws, a trusting child alike.  As night than motherly bending over me in the curve of her mantle, I sleep at once
... And in rice to calm my soul neêrliggende the duiste-
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
82
ran temple, with the warning afglans of the torch from the soft omme
erring lad.  And the dreams that my soul to its embedded between those
temple columns sees rise and evaporate in delirious haze and nothing, than forms of ethereal beauty and the harp strings sound sweet verses, while roses whirl through the air...
Those are the maternal nights that love me and bless me.
But the maternal nights too comforting.
Maternal nights pouring us out jet amphorae the balm that our
anoints the soul and gentle hands of maternal nights nurse our sick or
suffering souls.  In those comforting nights there is no temple, no sleepwalking, youthful, torch uplift income god but motherliness of the soothing night
whispers to our insomnia to gentle fairy tales and sweet stories, and if we weep, she murmurs, that our sorrows are so very little in her own eternity and divinity, in her motherly holiness... and laughs it a little soft and comforting corpse to  our desperate things, which she calls child despair...
Those are the maternal nights, I know: the blessing of sleep, in
insomnia yet comforting, maternal nights...
There are other nights.
There are the evil, demonic, frightened nights.
Know ye not?
I know them, I know them, unfortunately.
What has been the course of the day, which has snatched on my nerves,
as of confused and still taut strings?  I do not know, now calm, apparently, is to me, in my darkroom.  I'm in my dark bed.  I hope the maternal, comforting night;  especially now I hope for her, she is me
necessary...
But suddenly I see in the dark, like scarlet and ebony fire over there, in the night, for me... a grinning, demoniesch face...
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
83
Rts... it's gone.
And it does not appalled me too much and I turn to, on the one side.
And close my eyes, hoping to sleep.
... Slack, long worms whirl for me, wriggling like ribbons, as
krieuwelende macaroni hoses and their ends shudder faces
squinting eyes and ran lebbe tongues... they swell, swell as boa constrictors... rts and... they're gone.
No, I ontstel not too much.  I know these horrors, as I know the night motherliness.  And I have to go, easily, on the other side.
But the room is already full, full of infernal larvae.  From where did they come?
I do not know, but in the dark I see my room... and I see the larvae squirming and itching, and sitting in the middle of the room three mastodons...
They are as trained elephants are in a circus;  they sit on their
hind legs, they lace collars around their thick necks;  They squint chen
false with infernal phosphorus-eyes, and they wriggle their three muzzles against one another;  their three muzzle is an alien tripod, like to put something on.
And now they have another three flutes in their snouts and play flute: I hear what they're playing, as it hurtles into my ears, and tjengelt there or have been set up in my ears winch gently with very fine strings and strained.
I open my eyes and am very calm.  I am not anxious or furious here
to.  Because the demons are always stronger than our fear and rage: they laugh at both of them and if they laugh, swirl and whirl them all together around
a deep, deep, deep, blacks, ceaseless churning, which is dizzying been amazing
to look at;  which gives me a feeling as if I will be falling, falling, falling into black nothingness, endlessly...
I'm not furious, and am not afraid.  I simply turn the electric light
at... See, my room for me, well known and friendly... But it is so strange light in the upright specter of more mirror cabinet from whose weêrschijn far-Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
84
drunken nixies with old-wives tronie's seem to rise to the perpendicular
plain water, and the ear of my ewer swinging a silent snake, and my white clothes, over a chair, his swooned shadows of weak rock jetty, which
tragic sorrow died after the demons they have tickled death...
So I see, in the bright light that tortures my eyes, my otherwise so familiar, friendly room.
No, I am not afraid;  No, I'm not furious...
I simply take my side of the table, on a small particle in parchment
and gold.  It is the novelette by Longus: Dafnis and Chloe;  they are sweet antique figurines of Greek shepherd and shepherdess-who abandoned distinctly laid
children;  antique figures in poetry-loving, idylliesch-beautiful, ancient landscapes, and the story is graceful and impish and soulful course... For so sweet visions, cheerful beauties for districts so the demonic
larvae, or if the Nymphs, which Dafnis and Chloe guarding also rise around me,
and chase away the horrible tronies and winding ribbon webs with the graceful gesture from the bright glare of her adorable myth...
My room is my room back again: the mirror of the cabinet is no longer an enchanted lake, there are no more nixies and hoses and swooned pier rock.
Now it's back to my dark...
Will come sleep...?  Will, motherly, for a moment, a brief moment the night
bending over me, and softly, so softly that I could not detect it, kisses on my glowing oogeleden...?
* * *
But there are also the sweet nights, those nights of silvery dreams;  the dreams of wide, silver, calm seas, which I slide around on musical
ships, to rosy horizons;  There are wide, parelmoêrige nights, which I
by wandering in endless palaces of radiant and luminous columns, always Zoe-
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
85
One knew that I finally find;  there are the gold shining nights, with the Guldene dunes and strangely gentle azure woods, with the tooverlandschappen and
wonder halls, with the paradiziale symphonies, that sound of ethereal,
hemelhooge harps off;  harps, along WELKER cords winding the festoenen of
graceful, lovely, beneficent elves and the beneficent sirens...
There are also the holy nights, and I will not say more words.
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
86
the temptation
It was a cold night.
I joined a high blazing fire blocks.
Outside tore a fierce wind on the windows;  the rain slapping against the windows.
I saw the flames and dreamed.
Suddenly, in the fireplace, I heard a frantic rustling;  I thought of
a chimney fire.
By furious rustling fell, something terrible attacks in the chimney!...
I rose up, trembling with fear...
And I saw in my infernal blazing wood fire, the devil, which, along the
chimney slid, now steed scorched, from my wood fire, slender and swift, my
room entered.
- It's just the Devil, I thought;  my fear is ceased.
Devil grinned.  He stood before me like a perfect gentleman, in a
reds skirt, short, black satin pants, and the steed scorched glow, which he blaakte, extinguished, duller and duller, then died down completely.  The Devil, for me, was really no more than a gentleman in reds skirt.  He was clean-shaven, he was now even a little pale;  eyes, eyebrows, short hair was very black, and jet-black and pale and distinguished gave him anything.  He was very slim, elegant lines;  his calves, black silk stockings, were fine and nervous;  his foot in verlakten shoe, was long and narrow.  Where I not only loved, was a great, too
glittering jewel that he and top knot carried in his shirt: it was unknown to me, elektriesch-like
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
87
Stone, who shot bright rays which blinded.
- Bonsoir, said the Devil airy and dropped into a chair on me;  He threw his coat, top hat and white gloves on a sofa;  the heavy pels, the
hat and gloves fluttered strange light here by my room and
were then lie.
- Bonsoir, I replied.  You scared me.  I thought of a
chimney fire.
- No, no, the Devil acquiesced me.  Look, the flames have already shrunk.
- To what do I owe the honor...?  I began.
- I'll ask you, 'said the Devil.  What a miserable cold night it is, will
Do not you?  I was definitely at home, to take your fire, and I thought you come here ask.  I even have to leave my own fire, which is warmer than this.
Devil chuckled sympathetically;  his white teeth flashed in his well gevormden mouth, and he rubbed his, certainly cold, stiffened slender fingers on his finger sparkled a beautiful ruby.
- I believe gladly!  I replied.  But I think this is enough fire.
- It is very satisfactory!  Devil politely said;  He pushed his chair a little closer and we were sitting on each other.  It is quite enough... you do not go out at night?
- No, I do not think so...
- Now, we all have time to talk... See, look... I did you want to get requests.  What I can offer you, cher ami, is something that you highly appreciate.  You know the Faust of Goethe?
- Yes, I said;  and that of Gounod I know by heart.
- Hm!  said the Devil, deprecieerend;  mediocre, sweet music.  Wagner had
turned it into something else.  Or Strauss.  But Gounod... Now, just look;  I can
you have... youth.  Dear friend, I can give you... eternal youth, just as long as you want.  Are you tired of your eternal youth, then separating you from mead, then you will die,
if you desire it, and then you come to me.  but if
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
88
long do you live, whether you want to live for centuries, I give you eternal youth.  You will not be more than twenty years.  You'll totally be able to choose your type itself.  Your figure, your face, your eyes, your nose, your mouth, your hair... everything can be self, to your own choice, combining them.  There you have a good taste, I'm convinced,
you will be able to form you a very graceful ensemble.  And once you have your
new, young looks and eternal youth, then I make, you will always find a louis in your waistcoat pocket, whenever you search fingers... With that in each case
louis rehearse under him, and with your eternal youth of no more than twenty summers,
cher ami... you can along your life Áll pleasures, but so as flowers flowers here and there, picking... as much you like.  You will be able to make a nice bouquet of there.  Well, what do you think of my proposal?
- It is very tentant, I said, in deed or in the temptation.  And what I give you in return?
- Your soul, of course, the Devil said.  But without any blood drawn
contract and show maturity.  Because I need your soul instantly, in exchange for eternal youth.  Donnant, donnant.  cross so...
The Devil made a graceful gesture that mimeerde rapid exchange.
- But, I said;  if I give you my soul... how I live come from?  Without a soul?
- No, the Devil said.  I'll give you another soul.  You can choose itself from a whole assemblage souls.  I Really a charming collection.  Only...
- Only?  I repeated.
- I can not give you the soul of an artist.
- Why not?  I asked.
- Because I do not own it!  replied the Devil.
And the Devil sank with a deep sigh and a despondent gesture in his
deep armchair.
- You need me everything again later explain, I said and threw wood in the
fire, and the Devil blew a break in, and it burned
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
89
high, light, and golden-yellow and bright scarlet on.
- Look here, began to explain the Devil.  I own, down in my Hell among all the souls that I have collected, no artist-soul.
- Is that true?  I asked, ge-disinterested.
- That is, the Devil cursed;  God!  the sacred truth!  I own none
artist-soul!  For the simple reason that all of you after you die - whatever you do down here or how you live - go straight to heaven!
- Is that true?  I asked, more and more interested.
- Straight to heaven!  reiterated emphatically the Devil.  It is fatal!  It is Degoutant!  It is to be sick of it!  Nothing seems to be doing to be!  All artist-souls... they go right - so... zzztt!  (Hissed graceful Devil with graceful hand gesture) to Paradise.  It's true, they must first go through a kind of purification system back on Venus... but it takes a few months
and then... zzztt!... is the artist-soul Angel in Paradise!
- All artist souls??  I asked, full of interest.
- Allen!!  repeated the Devil.  It is Degoutant!  It seems that, if you live down here like swine, anyway you always something in your levensvizie (as it is called) and reserves -opvatting, that gives you a nine, in addition, the compatibility of Our Lord.  You seem always"good ',' good ',' very good ', and even keep' noble 'and' perfection ', whatever you do, how you live, simply because...
- Because?  I asked brightly.
- Because you keep eeredienen Beauty, all boars here you also even so much and because the beauty... actually is the highest, most divine principle!!
- Ah!  I was surprised, open mouth, large eyes.  Is that so?  And we go
All right, over Venus to Paradise??
- That is true!  expressed the Devil.  That is true!  he assured.  There's no doubt!  And the proof of what I say, cher ami,
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
90
is that I'm down in my Hell, no artist-soul!  Not a single one!  Not a single one!  It is Degoutant!  It is Degoutant!  Because it makes that...
- That what?  I asked.
- That's all down to us... so remains ugly!  Ah, dear friend, it's down to us... so horribly hideous and ugly!  Well, the first impression when you first arrive, is romantiesch, see: such dark flames fade and lakes and then Dis, my capital, with the flaming castles!  There's... well, there is perhaps a certain splendor in impozante, you see, so for a moment.  but real
Beauty you see... that we miss.  My demons... are ugly gentlemen!
- Yes, I said;  and yet had their primal types, the satyrs of Dionyzos,
undoubtedly some beauty!
- Yes, be-aâmde the Devil.  That's the dégoûtante!  my demons
horrible!  Gods, what are they horrible!
- You must not swear, I said, frowning;  I can not Heusch against.
- I will not do it again, said the Devil, politely apologetic.  Forgive me.
But ugly, those are my demons do.  And my devils!  They are for you to run away!  And everything... the whole lot.  Everything, everything is ugly to me!
- Yes, I said;  which seems always been to be so.  Because look at the paintings of the Italian primitives.  There you see Paradise forever - for example, by Fra Angelico - so most charming and charmingly presented, while Hell Really there is depicted as a horrible ugly place!
- Perfectly true!  said the Devil and swallowed his curse inwardly.  Quite true.
It is a disgusting awful lot to me.  Everyone is ugly.
- But yourself are what?  I asked.  You Really très bien ta personne...
- Oh, the Devil said;  this is my earthly metamorphosis.  But downstairs, cher
ami... down... I am to be scared, so horrible!!  You know, so as Dante described it already!
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
91
- Yes, I said;  Beautiful is not.
- Now, the Devil said confidentially.  You see... that's why I came to you
requests.  I absolutely must have an artist-soul down.  If I have one
I... I get maybe more.  And then you had to consider things that
downstairs to make some beautiful and refurbishing.
- Excuse me, I said, some cool.  I'm not a theater director.  Not too dekorateur.
You might do better to turn to a painter.  A musician might
what organizeeren nobler music at your creations than the grinding of teeth.  A
costumier of the opera - there are with artist-souls - you can devilish perhaps more pleasant to dress and make up for the eyes.  ... I can only beautiful
stringing words together... and oh, my friend, there's nothing.
- What do you cool on my request!  said the Devil, surprised, wide-eyed.
Says, what I offer you nothing at all, my dear friend?  Youth?  eternal
Youth?  As long as you pick prefers the pleasures along your life path and a
bouquet make?  Always have twenty years?  are powerful, fresh, healthy?  Nice: a handsome boy?  Always find a louis in your waistcoat pocket?  And for nothing
otherwise give... then your soul, your soul artist, while I still, into the bargain, offering another soul, you have itself to choose from a whole collection
souls?  While you still artist-soul down, yet always remains a bit of your soul, you see, and things are redecorating?  Beauty with me in Hell raises, so that if you later for good, after you die, will live with me, you do also something beautiful around you will see around: the beauty that you have created itself there!?
- Excuse me, I said;  but I never read my own books.
- That's another matter!  Devil stamped her foot angrily.  That's another
question!  But you do not want to show me that all the beauty that you see, exists!  No, is not it?  So I think that if your soul Beauty, which she sees, here on earth, even to the ordinary, the commonplace, the trivial, the vile, even evokeert to me... God, dude, though it is also  only
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
92
only with nice words... Beauty which also is weaving will you look, my eyes, all the monstrous horrors, among which I live downstairs,
continue to reign, yes, but patience... patience, my best friend, because it's horrible, disgusting, horrible... always ugly, always ugly... never once beautiful, soft, sweet, tender, graceful, soothing color or  of sound or feeling ugly... but always... always ugly!!  Best friend, best friend - the Devil almost sobbed and he folded his hands imploringly.
Have mercy on me!  Take the return to!  Look in the mirror.  You are approaching a fatalen age!  There are wrinkles on your forehead and hanepooten to your eyes that are dull!
What is thin your hair!  How yellow his cheeks and how pale his lips!  You have
all red spikelets by the whites of your eyes: this is a worrying sign,
though!  You can no longer good for champagne, do not you, not so as ten
year ago?  I want to tell you something?  I want you predict something?  Even ten years older, best friend, and...
Devil leaned to my ear and whispered horrible things.
I withdrew disgusted me.
- Quit it!  I shouted angrily.  What I have missed about ten years, I will not count... because it will comfort me, and I, after my death... go right, Venus, to the
Paradise, go like all artist-souls!  We get nothing but nines!  We live, as we want!  I shouted;  Yet we remain good boys because we eeredienen Beauty and Beauty is the most divine principle!  By the way,
I exclaimed;  So, basically, do not you wish a bit back... to that"brave"and"noble"and"divine"... because otherwise you would not wish... you affreuzen Hell to reorganizeeren to Beauty?
The Devil was sobbing fallen on the sofa, his top hat back.
- Ill see!  he exclaimed.  It is fatal!!  It is Degoutant!  I will never be able to have an artist soul!  Nobody wants!  No artist wants to come with me, I also their promise!  Miss vain guy, I offer youth and all the pleasures of youth
depending on it... and you
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
93
refuses?  Really you refuse to give me your soul... in exchange for still another??
- Which soul?  I asked.
- For bankers soul?  tent most of the Devil.
- Thank you, I said;  I can hardly go up and countdown;  how do you want me to calculate premiums!
- For the soul of a king?  tent most of the Devil.
- I prefer to write, I said, every day a serial for the Fatherland, then I continue to reign over any people, and signatures must scratch under
all kinds of pieces, my ministers submit to me!
- Then... for the soul of a cocotte?
- Jamais de ma vie!!  I cried violently.  So I was a woman, I might
caprice have, adventures and coups de foudre at legion... but I would never put my body and my love can sell, not even for a million!
- Then... the Devil said;  maybe... the soul of a false Artist??  I have!!  The soul of a Kunstmaker?  The soul of an artist, who... is not an artist?
The soul of a poet... who is not a poet?  The soul of...
- Much rather, I exclaimed;  I would prefer... the soul of a banker, a king... yes, a cocotte!!  Vade retro, Satanas!!!
I stretched out his hands.
For me in sobs that cut me by my artist-soul, the Devil down upon
landfilled.
- I beg you!  he cried.  Let your requests!  Give me your soul!  I'll give you eternal youth!
I can not live without beauty!  I want Beauty!  I give everything I have,
For an atom Beauty!!
- I do not want you Youth!  I shouted out.  Because I want straight, Venus, toward heaven!!
Then something terrible!!!
Devil uttered a cry, so much so...!
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
94
I can not describe him.
And he pressed the electric jewel of his shirt button...
And... the ground week under him... I saw in Hell!
Devil fell into the flaming abyss...
The floor joined to...
And shivering, trembling, I fell into my chair...
My wood fire was out.
But I heard from afar a voice - that of my guardian angel - she called:
- Obedient zoo, my son!!
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
95
Boredom
If a gray ghost, which spreads the gray wading with wide arms of her
omneveling, hovers over our earthly world Boredom it, and overshadowing
over cities - despite all her crowds -, on villages and fields - in spite of all their loveliness
-, Over forests and mountains - in spite of all their natural beauty -.
Tot diep in de matte targeten of people...
* * *
About all of us, on our very souls, shines and schaûwt the Boredom.
I sat in the verandah of a beautiful hôtel, located in a beautiful park
a most charming Italiaansch more, and bored.  It was in the morning, and the sun was shining, and it was more like a sapphire stone, and the villa was like a toovertuin and the verandah was like a classical colonnade, and I was in a facilitating,
wicker chair and stared out and bored.  Next to me, a wicker table, layers
Italiaansche, French, Dutch newspapers, and a few very sweet letters from acquaintances, I had already read four times... Yet still I was bored... I gazed out over the lake and was bored... I was bored  .
Beside me sat my wife.  She was blonde, very quiet, in a toilet of pink linen that suited her very well, and that they are in a very interesting craft on fillet
was deepened (her crafts are always interesting)... they are not bored.  I think they seldom bored, but I also believe that it is an exception.
There she asked me, however, as little as possible about her
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
96
writing, I dare however, unfortunately, not further elaborate on her...
But a short distance from me, here in facilitating wicker chair, sat a gentleman.
He sat and stared and, apparently, he was bored.  His light blue,
Germanic eyes stared at the miracle more of lapis lazuli and eyes
bored.  They were bored, so like the whole Mr bored at
a sophisticated way.  Also with him on a table, lay papers and letters, not the door but the owner herself that very chic hôtel had handed him respectfully.
Here, by my bored mind, the curiosity was stealing what and
whom he could... Then my attention was captured by the arabesque,
my wife worked on her breast... Then I took the dear letter from my friend... And then I leaned back in my very facilitate for the fifth time, wicker chair, staring across the toovermeer of lapis lazuli..  .and bored.
By mine behind forward movement and the mats downfall of my arm over
the arm of the wicker chair, slipped my handkerchief, which I measured was to unfold, from my sleeve and remained white, are square.  I sensed the
, but had no desire so a principalities, squares handkerchief to pick up.  My
woman, very absorbed in her breast, which it counts whole series and makes complicated sums, saw it not...
But is distinguished gentleman noticed annoying it can be done, and once... His
look, interested, focused on the lake in my handkerchief.  Me, secretly, was interested then, what he would do... Would he cry to me, that my handkerchief had fallen...?  No, he called me nothing but the fallen handkerchief truly sprung him... As for me, bored I kept staring across the lake, my interest in what he would do with covering my boredom... he would probably do nothing,
Germanic, distinguished gentleman... Yet I saw that he looked at me... I continued to stare, bored.  Suddenly, he stood up.  He walked to and fro, to and fro, business and
distinguished... Sometimes he glanced at my bag-
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
97
cloth, my handkerchief, which truly bounced him... Finally he could stand it no longer.
He suddenly ran toward me with a right angle, and his dignified back somewhat difficult
Bending, he picked up my handkerchief squares, and offered me before, saying,
obviously relieved, in German:
- Your handkerchief fell... Bitte sehr!
I arose, as if from a dream, scare easily, thanked and bow with a German
bending.  A German deflection is very different, not true, then a French inflection, which is left, and an Italian inflection, which is grace and panache.  A German soldier was bending, stiff, tight and deep.  The German deflection hurt me in the back.
I thanked so courteous I could, in German, I speak horrible.
- Bitte sehr!  repeated itself distinguished nasty Germanic lord
strict, if he wanted to tell me that I thanked more than was necessary,
he had not picked up her handkerchief to oblige me, but to themselves to be no more enervated by that stupid there on the ground, prostrate down upon square handkerchief.
I asked later who was Mr.
Well, the gentleman was the Finance Minister of a great power, and he
came into this hotel because he had needed peace of the whole series, he had counted on and the complicated sums, which he had made...
Which anecdote I just want to prove that one finance minister of a
great power can be, and bored at the same time atrocious in a beautiful hotel on a beautiful Italiaansch more.
Because if the minister does not atrocious was bored, he was never ge-enerveerd
came by my fallen handkerchief and he had never before picked up...
In the same hôtel lingered when an old friend of ours...
She is a widow and rich.  She has neither child nor cat Crow and bored so, and is so rich that it is distraction imposed every month to buy a bijou.  Given its old-Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
98
ren age and fitness of its maandelijksch revenu, it would be light
Calculate how much are diamonds and rubies it.  She even puts sometimes an emerald brooch on her corsage from behind on... the back, to which corsage to
unite her skirt, and then loses the brooch, without emotion, in... the tram.
Which anecdote I want to prove that one can be widowed and wealthy and
no crow, cat and child, and yet, despite the distraction of the
maandelijksch bijou, may be bored atrocious.
Because... if she did not, at least had her losing her emeralds
back in a tram, where she had paid a dime, do her smile at the
Feits of humor, and she even had the smile of emotion out when they announced to us hair loss.
She must be bored atrocious...
But these verve men are rich, grand verve types.  The minister
temporarily bored and wealthy lady is bored because they do want to get bored, because if one emeralds can buy monthly and may lose emotionless,
one need not get bored, they at least can very boredom mask with good, sweet, and amuzante deeds amuzant, sweet and good for themselves and for
Other
And if your feuilletonist bored... well reader, then he beats his boredom sometimes a serial for you, and he hopes to scatter at least with his boredom ù three minutes, if not to amuse.
But there are other verve men who do not always have the mise en scène of a
magnificent hôtel to lapis lazuli more, and I do not always all-first-class hôtels foothold, I see around me and beside me snarl which verve men and grays in fashion consumption of small, sweet, kind pensions...
Women, especially women!
Oh, women who are bored!  Oh, how many women who plant life
small pensions, precisely so may establish existence and life of mediocre funds, or
even wear a blouse and sweet
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
99
even sometimes go to the theater, but otherwise her poor lives day forth
drag to day in the twilight of mist shroud of gray Boredom, which always hovers over her;  o some women who are bored with no husband and stomach, without
child, the child of the concierge, and no cat, the hangover from the guest house, unoccupied, without emotion nor jewels, which they can not buy,
nor art, which they consider not even almost without reading matter!  Oh what dozens, hundreds maybe some of these poor, poor double guest beings I have not
met, which some tinkling on the piano and play an instant bridge, which mainly
chat with untiring jaws and chatter and clatter about other themselves
annoying boarders, who only a moment flirt still eyes may flicker on doing, but who continue life day by day one gray, gray Boredom, one Boredom, Boredom one...
Poor, gritty, love-, passion, emotion, aimless lives!  They are like the shades of gray, gray Boredom itself;  they are like the gray shades, the pale ghosts Boredom and this life is her all the gray death, where by they
without beauty and warmth and glow going, going... on the tips of her frosted
feet!  Poor, drab lives!
- What are you doing?  tells me my wife, who enters.
- I write, I reply.
- What?  A serial?  Do I interrupt you?
- Never, I answer honestly and courteously.  And besides, it's almost finished.
- It's... because I wanted to say something.  You ask council wanted.  Would you include
mind crazy... if I ever tried to create a tearoom?
- A tea room?  I say, AHURI.
- Yes.  You see, I should be quite something to do.  I get bored sometimes.  And with
to be director of a tea room, I would have engaged celebrate until six o'clock, every day, and even a lot of money mead.  With a tea-room you will be rich.
With a very
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
100
chiquen tea room.  Rather... I would have a fancy hat shop, you see, milliner
are... see Paris twice a year... at Virot... and then reproduce... but hey, hats... I do not... that would be the"family"might not approve, while  a tea room... I never have to emerge herself...
- Then to your husband, to drink tea at one of your tables, I say, and I might add, because my wife is very serious:
- A tea room might not be a bad idea.  Better than a millinery;  see
you, we are perhaps too dignified to...
- There are in London Ladies'... Lady so-and-so and so-and-so Lady... that are
milliners... But perhaps a tea room would be better... Really, I get bored sometimes so, dear boy...
- Me too, I say.  They think that I subscribe dead work and death.  But I
write... every day, from two to four.  That's all I do.  More... I get bored if I do not amuzeer me.  I would perhaps be able to help with your
tea-room...
- No, no, you're so little praktiesch.  You can have tea...
- For nothing!
- But do not eat too many cookies there!  Three hear every day.  No more.  Otherwise you ruin me... Really, joking aside, I'm in such a terrible desire... to set up a tea-room.  Because I sometimes bored so!!  I will take a good idea
think... and working... and compute...
I let my wife (who seems to be bored so anyway sometimes) to her
calculation, preparation, reflection.  And go out... a cart with heavy stones will
slowly passed, drawn by, well, if a poor, old, tired, kind, patient
... And the horse carts carrier over the stones stretched out like a rocky
divan, suddenly, with a curse, a good!, the whipping winds, which he clicked in the universe...
The whip falls on the sidewalk, almost at my feet.
I see disgusted and maybe even more surprised.  And because I see,
the cart-carrier difficulty of his steenen-
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
101
kar attempts to climb to Erlangen back his whip, I pick the whip, and
further his cart and ask him:
- What is wrong with you?  To swing so you whip out??
- Thank you, sir, you're friendly, you know, to give me back my whip... What inspires me?  I want to tell you?  Well now, though, I get... to me!
He said it in French, with a very expressive word.
Because of a German ex-minister to a French carrier carts... all, all, all, we are poor, feel intimated about our shadows and the gray twilight
the shroud, with arms wide, wide out, the gray ghost world stretches out above
our, Puzzle never saw aimlessness...
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
102
Of the giants, the wizard and the lady
It was a thin, cold night, a cold night in the summer, somewhere in a strange, narrow, green land, which was like a narrow valley, like an emerald valley under a
dome of gold ore, under a dome of gold stone, because in the summer cold
tinkled millions of stars are twinkling in this koepeldom of the night and it materialized that nocturnal round Nothing to bow with gold powder doortinkeld ore, a canopy of gold dust doorpoederd chryzolieth: jewel and metal above the
glen, which turned emerald shone and was definitely fascinated.  because
the bovennatuurlijke order and that valley and along the valley was mainly that there reusachtige Giants, like kings and prinselijkheden, in the thin, cold night seated were on crystal thrones rotsgestoelten around the valley: numerous princes and prinselijkheden and  not to count so many: some were grim, bearded and wrinkled faces, others showed whiter and younger, but still
lofty and serious countenance, and while they resided on their gestoeltes of
rock and thrones of rock crystal, they lifted high in the summer night, which was cold and thin, their heads crowned with diamond crowns, while on their broad shoulders and sturdy backs the white, ermine cloaks billowed down upon and away
corrugated over their powerful feet, which weighed rock footstools on the banks
of the valley.  So they sat around like a mighty meeting
rule over the enchanted depths, from whose first night quiet silence they raised,
langzamer-, gradually, the strange symphony of voices and sound: the
booming voice of pine mountain stream, the klate-
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
103
of laughter from the waterfall, bruischende word of the wind through the pine forest, the delicate sound brittle as glass, drawn-ray, which they raised from
the violin of a man.
The Giants listened enthroned in the thin, cold night.  The fragile tender
drawn-out radius of glass sounded to them and sang, sang in many variegation brittle teederheden, and was like a prayer, a request, a supplication,
sometimes as a complaint, or as a joy, a short paean to weather
way to spin and melt in melancholy and strangely homesick.  the Giants
did not always understand why that song from downstairs bath and asked and begged and
complained and was jubilant happy and melted in nostalgia and melancholy, but they found it
song so beautiful and nodded at each other with a gevonkel the diamantdiademen,
it was nice that violin song of the man who strings song of the
Pygmy downstairs, almost invisible, lived on their feet, in the enchanted valley.
But while admiring the lofty white or harshly furrowed faces
knikkebolden against each other in the night, was among them the evil Lady
and laughed loudly and angrily, so that the Giants were startled.
The Lady enthroned as they enthroned;  they enthroned on a throne of rock and
of rock crystal, like a princess;  of her shoulders flowed like white snowy ermine cloak up over her feet, and sparkled in her blond head as
a silver horn hair kroonbag, and radiated out, the mirror facets
supernatural jewel.  It was very clean, so white and so proud, if there is no giant princess sat around.  It was the proudest and the whitest, but her incomparable spaciousness seemed never to satisfy her virginal soul,
as loud and angry and evil, they laughed, they laughed, so that the Giants were startled and she laughed because the Giants geknikkebold admiringly had in the cold,
rarefied night, to the violezang of the little man down...
The Giants were frightened, and it was their King, that Directive
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
104
to head to the maid and he frowned snow white eyebrows.  The king
The Giants were called the White Lord through them all, because he was white as snow
of flowing locks and beard on his face groevig.  sat beside him
wife, the Queen, and the Giants called her Lady Roza, because they often
sweet soft blush was on her white face, snow-white locks
surrounded.
- Why are you laughing so bad, tell me, princess Lady?  asked the good-natured
King of the evil giant.
- Why am I evil laugh, King?  gave the Lady angry response.  I know
wàarlijk was not either my evil laugh, but before I want to laugh with evil laugh over
weep with good tears, or even admiring nod, because in this
night of our deliberations to us ringing the sorrow and joy of the pygmy.
But it has always been good-natured foolishness of our Giants, which dwarfs not
only to tolerate on our feet, but even treaties with immense reuzige
silly of everything they do to us!  O King, you endure everything!  You, Lady Roza, everything!  All ye princes, princesses, you endure the dwarfs everything;  You dult all of the pygmy, whom thou have loved, and rather than destroy him with a few steps, with a fall of grit or a scoop of sneeuwig down
remains ge all affable monitor their scratchy smallness, even growing in reckless brutality!
- Lady, lady, what your voice sounds bitter!  reproached soft Lady Roza,
and it rearranged the folds of her ermine coat, without bad that they did down almost choke some dwarves in the cold night in the dusty down there
of which froze to snow.
- Sure, grinned the Lady now;  My voice sounds so sweet you are not in the ears as the violezang of the pygmy which you are suffering and joy
echoes!  But I'm just a Giantess, and enthroned and crowned Princess!
I am not you, Giants, beloved puny dwerginne!  Certainly, preferably saw ge ye all to me, I also silly admiration mead-knikkebol Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
105
the, not only joy and sorrow that wretch, but most certainly
to everything he does to us, what he does to me;  for his brutal opklautering along my flanks with his iron carts with iron straps with iron teeth, to approach unto my silver horn and my diamond prinsessekroon!
- Come on, Lady!  acquiesced calm and good-natured a Giant, in white cowl
was wrapped, and was very confessor.  What makes you still ge so angry, and what
indignation thou that the dwarfs.  whose song we hear sounds up here to us, a
unquenchable desire to bask in their little souls to all you see in the eyes.
- They insult me ​​with that desire, Monk!  shouted angrily from the coy maid.  I'm not the chaste lady, the silver horn-crowned Reuzinne, and I must suffer that jog the pygmies in my chastity and infect my divine purity, tarnish, besmirch?
Second time a blaring of laughter alomme in the wider.  But
This time it was the laugh of the Enchanter who weêrklonk.  The Enchanter under
the Giants had an immense Giant and so beautiful a Giant, as the Lady
was a fine Giantess.  He was enthroned, but a pyramid of rock crystal,
and his wonderful giant head he stuck high in the nocturnal dome on.  He was
crowned it all, and the ermine dragged by his feet.  And in the wider alomme blaring stretched his gurgling laugh, so mockingly as the Lady Smile
was angry.
The evil Lady raged at him because he laughed because he laughed at spot
her, she raged at him - although him in the silence of her reuzinnehart fiercely loved - and she shouted angrily: - How dare me to scorn your smile, O Enchanter,
Magician who you are anyway!
White Lord and Lady Roza tried with majestic gestures, a den
Magician not to mock the other to do the maid not yet so bitterly angry, but Toove Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
106
to schaterlachte continues, and finally he exclaimed in a voice like an effervescent violate storm:
- Lady, countenance, I laugh, if you laughed, and patience that I ridicule to your fear!
Pure art thou, and divine, and chaste shalt remain, even jog the dwarves to snow robe and your snow, pure chastity: no dwarf, O
Lady, believe me, is mighty manly enough to vermeesteren o, Giantess!
Your fear seems to me somewhat komiesch before and I can not help but roar there
to!  Well, the dwarf who with his iron carts wild scramble on to your diadem remained, guileless, and without you to do harm, stabbing to mid on your lap, and believe me, he will never get power to your flonkerbag than  he en
muscle strength and endurance you climb, climb, Reuzinne!  And climb
Now, Reuzinne, dwarves who live downstairs, and are happy and sad turns and desire for height and purity... chaste wouldst thou nevertheless always
remain, O Lady: millions of pygmies, they would be able to climb, but
they would never capability to do the sweet violence!  Come lady, have
no idle fear, and rather than being angry and be angry, I advise you: do
bewitching, if you can include betoover, betoover the dwarves, they betoover like me!
Be sorceress, when I Enchanter!  Cause I, I'm the Enchanter, the Enchanter,
enthroned on his pyramid!  Of a triangle in my troongestoeltes I call him
far, the dwarf: come, come, come on to me!  Come by my colossal flanks into my big hands, and I will raise you to my lovely head!  So I cry,
Lady, with tooverroep, and more and more dwarves obey my call,
which I repeat do by my fairies, that they oplokken the dwarf with me,
oplokken to the dizzying height of my head, from where he infinity
... see if he's worth it and it can do!
- But you, Enchanter!  The Lady angrily shouted;  surrounds the pygmy not
with chains and fetters of iron, as he tries to make me and why I hate him!
And in the night echoed other voices Giants, Reuzin-
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
107
Nand, who thought well, that was the same Lady:
- And you Enchanter, the dwarves pierce the troongestoelt not, like us, simply not to require us to clamber on, when they go to their one valley
to the other!!
When the White Lord liked it enough, especially because the night was rotated,
because chryzoliet and gold ore from the hemeldom began to degenerate
a dome of veeltintig pearl, and because of His Divinity the Sun rose in plcchtige splendours: for he threw the Hours, from baskets, roses, which glowed like gold, and weêrschijn his scarlet flames bathed with an aureole
ocean of crimson, which quivered and lived and rippled the godschoone faces of the Giants and the giantesses.  White Lord therefore, strict, made a sign and the Giants
respectfully silent and giantesses blushed and its mid blushed Lady
Roza sweetest.
But in the depths of the valley of emerald, which was no longer enchanted, now the
day came, was silent silent violezang of man and were the dwarves
noisy, as the Giants became silent and motionless.  And numerous tourists emerged from hôtel at hôtel and took the train to Jungfrau, without perceive something of the Reuzinne anger, fearing that the brutal pygmy her chastity
would tarnish;  others took the train at Gornergrat, and continued from there
the Matterhorn stare, which enchanted them, and who always secretly, with silent
deep tooverstem still whispered to their human souls:
- Come on!  Come on!  Come to me!  Here I give you the happiness and love of fairies!
Come on!  Come on!  Come to me!  Here I give you the bliss of my white paradise!
While the King of Rcuzen, the White Lord, whom the dwarves, as they did all other Giants, in their stupidity, for mistook a mountain and called the
Mont Blanc, allowed good, for a large caravan of seven and twenty tourists and guides are opklauterde reuzige flanks, and even the folds over of
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
108
his royal ermine cloak small ladders laid to from one pleat
get on the other - it is not all of them, the seven-and-twenty, were able to do so conveniently and bony, that this time, not one single dwarf down upon tumbled in the downy abyss, which had been the white death for many.  ..
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
109
the spark
There was a gentle smile at me, like a spark, always glimpte.  I remember from my childhood;  that was like a small, silent, golden joy for life, or rather to the little things in my little life.
If I had been naughty and they grumbled to me, I was not long under the impression,
I immediately thought: well, they grumble because they have to, but really it was not that I did;  I will not be more naughty... and then I felt the spark warm glimpses.  When I was sick, I thought, well, very sick, I do not have, and it is to even be pleasant a little sick: you stay in bed, Mom's even more than elsewhere, the brothers and sisters come to you looking  and spoil you a little bit and the cook makes separate saucers for you, which is how white and too weakly, still just fine
are... because you're sick if you eat them.  If you were playing in the garden, there glimpte the spark, because then there was sunshine on new grass, fluttered chapels, or you relished
raspberries, or even if you shake apricots.  If you walked with mom, was
there is the spark, because you didst a walking stick, and you went to big daddy, where the
Miss you gave unforgettable oublie-particles, or you went to aunt, who had a game with very large marbles, beautiful marbles, where you could not marbles mead, but
or siege-games in the lounge.  When the sisters went to the ball, there glimpte the spark, because you saw them so beautiful as ever, like little fairies, across airy frocks, and they had something splendid, something they did not do otherwise.  If you went touring mead, whether there was an outside party, or you went on a trip to the Rhine, there glimpte the spark,
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
110
because it was getting very pleasant things.  When you went to India on a very
large steamer, glimpte there the spark, because that was such a thing verrukkelijks, if you can imagine it hardly hast.  In India there glimpte spark because the sun so
gold was in a very blue sky, because trees bloomed with flowers, because
you got a horse and a Bendie because you every day should bathe twice,
and peeing in a lot of water, because cookies were white and purple fruits.
At school the spark glimpte often and when you were taught mythology,
sparkled in your sparks.  For history also glimpte the spark.  Actually
glimpte the spark always a smile on your little soul, even though it sometimes days, that the spark glimpte, and then you tried to feel unhappy than you actually was.  But in deed there were so many lovely, lovely, lovely things around you and within you, that spark very soon opglimpte her eyes again, like a little shining star.
But when you went back to Holland, the spark was extinguished.  steamboat
was a French and still greater, but you did not care.  were on board
only great men, and you vondt them much less nice than children, then
boys.  You ought also a feeling that no one was kind to you, and your mom or
not so spoiled and caressed as before.  There was no one who you
caressed.  And if someone was trying to be nice to you, you were surly or even rude, and did not caress you.  And in Holland showed off the spark, because everything was so small and dull and dreary and dull and boring, and your little soul was quite drab, and your little life very monotonous.  You missed too many to mention.
No, no one was more kind to you.  Oh yes, they were quite sweet but not
nice: no one spoil you more, nobody did more dólveel you;  you were long,
lanky and pale, and not the pretty boy that she liked you in the Indies;  you were definitely unbearable, there was anything nice and gay to you, and
nobody, nobody loved you, even if your mother was always sweet.  You bored sometimes you very much, and sometimes cried for a long time,
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
111
Why you did not know: actually all because you was so alone, because no
dear were beautiful things, because you do not wast favorite.  The spark was extinguished
and sometimes you think - without thinking of a spark - why is it so and will
always so... Now there were books when you got older;  a big, long, rigid, insufferable boy sure, when you were seventeen...
And among those books was Ouida.  And now you can say Ouida What do you want that
she wrote impossible histories, but I remain forever grateful - abandoned recently in a small village Italiaansch in misery, died writer -
grateful, because in me, suddenly, unexpectedly, the spark did òpglimpen.  Back then
I could not so say exactly why, but now I know very well what the
reason was that her books, her romantic, impossible to book the extinct
opglimpen did spark in me.  It was not the story itself, but it was
very fine distance, the exquizen background Italiaansch landscape
Italian art.  Oh God, what was beautiful and what is even more beautiful in Ouida's
novels: the Italiaansche landscape, the Italian arts.  That was said by
love so great, with such heartfelt emotion with vóorgetooverd so colorful and bright plastic, it was a vision that never waned, vision of a
land of promise, vision of a hot country, a paradise lost, lost, although never set foot in this life!  That was the, as it was called
a name: Italy!  And it was a nostalgia, as strong as beyond me, so I'm not there,
me a nostalgia pulls back to Italy, much as with strings there, the land and the sky of my soul.
Ouida's books, no, the atmosphere of Ouida's books, the landscape and the
love of beautiful, ancient art stuff that was what the extinct spark did opglimpen in my gray boys soul, and I'm dead in misery, poor
abandoned writer, who had repelled romantiesch any assistance would have done if one of her heroines, eternally grateful.
The glimpte: the spark was there again.  At school it was
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
112
horrible, but the spark glimpte hell when I was taught by Dr.  Ten Brink.  He
talked a lot nicer than he wrote.  His voice was the emotion that remained alien to his written word.  He spoke for more than an hour, and told me of beautiful books and beautiful things.  The spark glimpte steadily and sparkled.
He told me of Charles Romans, of Arthurian romances, Humanism, of
Petrarch... The spark glimpte so, I wrote verses that I wrote verses of Petrarch... It was a nostalgia for that distant land to that beautiful country, to
Italy, to the south.
The years have been more severe, and the thought often choked the spark.  But
though there were times when the spark died down to too intense thought, a single
perception of beauty, a picture, a landscape, a sentence in a book
could again spark glimpses do.
And I believe that, in spite of all severity and distress, who have been there, the spark never quite extinguished more times, the spark always had hergloeien force again with her
dazzling star.  It is the same spark, I feel soft glow as a child in me;  a small gold gift the gods that I, if I lose it sometimes, yet again was returned by an unexpected sensation of something beautiful, of
something nice.
I do not think I now that I know the spark so deliberately, it can ever really lose once again.  Oh sure, there will be sad times, times full of difficult things, times of misery, perhaps, full of sorrow, full of melancholy, times when everything I own, maybe you will see road sinking around me, but what may happen to me will  I am sure that the spark never more deaf héelemaal will: the
soft-happy, golden spark, the golden gift of the gods, the small
Star brilliant trezoor, sometimes pale, sometimes hellere light that was always in me and is - to what it also has been smart, despair, despair - and whatever will come - all the love, all the beauty, àl sunny  , àl the joy of Life, Life, especially so if it is in
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
113
Later years to deliberately came to me, almost dionyziesch vertuit with bunches of grapes of joy, along white southerners paths under blue skies, vaulted over
azure seas, between frames of dark cypresses, the gentle weggewaasde
backgrounds pearl light pale silver olives and dusk
sunshade pain shadows, which opzuilen the verbrokkelingen beminder ruins
and himself, faint or clearer afteekenen the silhouettes of all that, in that
atmospheres, the eternal beauty created...
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
114
Incognito te Nice
Let me ask you, O reader, let me tell you, O reader - but only you, who can be silent -
entrust a big secret and promise me not to betray it, never and never mention a word of it, and especially not in some newspaper, to seek recognition in the more or less fashionable section, especially in the mundane  communications of Petit Niçois or Eclaireur, the papers of my good city
Nice... Will you promise me?  Can I build you as a rock, O reader?  Oh, reader, thou shalt be silent, you that even your own deepest secrets zoo
have involuntarily reveals under a fragrant cup of afternoon tea, if not to Jan
and everyone still Jeanne and All Woman!?  How it may be, I can
my secret can no longer conceal that there are tragic moments in life in which one lays bare his soul and secrets to whom we are sympathetic, and you would not be sympathetic to me, both of you, you do want to keep busy a few minutes with your  Saturday, Chen cauzeur?  I put so from shore, and I whisper it to you, O reader, O reader;  I whisper to you:
I'm right again Nice!!  (End of October, the date does not matter.)
Chtt!  Say it is not over!  Do not speak of!  Both silent, like the grave!  Because I'm too nice, but I'm in Nice, incognito, since end October there is no one in Nice, and anyone making a trip to Paris or a château tarries with friends, hunting, or where thou also  want, but never, o friends, Nice.  And do you now know, the little one is in Nice at this moment of initial goudbladerigen of autumn, then I can tell you this degree
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
115
of meanness make known, by you to trust that even my maid and my faithful servant Marcel standing still and villégiature with family
acquaintances, so that their spoiled masters - my wife and I - at this tragic ash moment in their villa only be operated by our noble kokinière - as I remember, that argotterm ushered in time in The Hague cheffesse-de-cuisine
- Madelaine, you might vaguely vivid in his mind from earlier
Dionyziesch serial, good friends.  Yes, the Italian Giannina, chamber maid, the French Marcel, valet-de-chambre, lens down even by their absences;
further spectacle you still absent carpets on the stairs, are the flower pots widowed of palms, the large salon hermetiesch is closed, there is only well
discover a certain line of grace in my werkhol and only one comfort us
mutual kemenaden or slaapsaletten, is the garden has dug or lush, zoo to zoom, overgrown with flowering weeds, and may the noble Madelaine more hair
stockings lint, in the afternoon, on a chair in the front grille of the villa (not in the gentility of the saison, of course, is never permitted!!).
Because, readers and reader, are officially Mr.  Louis Couperus, le distingue novelist hollandaise et la charming Mme.  Couperus, not back in their villa in Nice;  it has not been in Petit Nicois or Eclaireur;  No friends or acquaintances (which either do not, either, as we also have returned only incognito) know, and we there yet only go so between dog and wolf, I think in discrete evenings, and then along slip the walls -  to preserve our incognito anyway - everyone thinks
- Does at least everyone whether he thinks - that we are in Italy, Switzerland or Paris us stop and linger...
But friends, we are in Nice, and now I want you, even in big secret co
parts that... all our friends are all nice, but all incognito... and that we sometimes see these acquaintances as we creep along the walls, in the discrete evenings between wolf and dog, and that if we together  can not avoid, but pounding
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
116
against one another on the not-saison mässig lit corner eener street, we
invariably, getting very surprised, exclaim:
- So, you're back already in Nice?  I have come only for a few days,
to (a lie is soon found) a few vêtements-d'hiver the suitcases
pick, but I'm going to Paris this evening... oh yes, we are still sure... November in Paris...
And assure our friends, in their turn, they too only in Nice
temporarily for two days but linger to this or that, but they go away tomorrow... also to Paris...
And we say goodbye with these heartfelt words:
- Maybe we'll meet it in the train... or else certainly the
Boulevard... Goodbye!  Goodbye!
But... oh reader and reader, you who my secret and that of my acquaintances
entrust... neither the friends nor the distinguished Dutch novelist
and his charming wife... go to Paris, and four days later they meet
another her eyes again, almost the same which badly alleviate street corner and waving it
among one another with quizzical gesture and fun blink because they each have an eye on!!
* * *
Incognito Nice!  Notwithstanding all the plaster and lime, which you away
stuivelt - for building in Nice and grows it continues, if ever, this city even comes ready - notwithstanding all the stones and beams, which choke the streets or GOUDRONNAGE which keeps our roads moore black moisturizes and then dust, as  they dried up, but cash - now in for the saison - in streams, dark as the
Styx itself, and rivers of glistening jet, lapping along our roads and streets;  notwithstanding all the old-fashioned villas, which demolished and the modern palace, which are built up, it is still the incognito stay in Nice not devoid of any charm in this gold-leafed month of October.  chase the first freshness date
the last zomerzwoelten, and the sun is no longer a frantic Apollo right, which
but scorching flashes shoots, but already casting soft gold is copious
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
117
of like a beneficent shower on the back.  The morning on the Promenade
not interesting, so I prefer to stay at home in the morning, between my work and my books, the sunsets, at six o'clock, behind the Antibes coast
every-day glories and fantasmagoriën, which I seldom miss.  There is no one
on the Promenade.  It's Solitude at dusk, and only my
dream walking, light of foot, mead with me.  There the first North Wind blows me
fresh in the face, and the sea is dark and menacing and almost seems the sea of ​​Scheveningen.  But behind Antibes are above the menacing dark sea,
foreign Feeërieën, the mirage of tooverlanden, the mauve sky lakes,
which float the gold islands and their beautiful capes uitspietsen.  above
the golden islands verzweven flights from phoenix-birds, spread,
amethysttintige wings... And there are only the phoenix-birds, the golden
miracle islands, the lilac sky oceans, and the darkening Middelland Serbian waves,
which vying with roaring tense of prancing white foam,
Poseidon symbolic steeds... there are, in the falling night, just who all... there are no people around me... just my nimble dreams... and it is so beautiful, so beautiful,
so wonderfully nice... if it is only here in October, as it will never be, later, during the saison...
Once the hôtels elektriesch sparkle of light...
And Jetée sparkles of light elektriesch...
And Promenade Glitter rastaquouères...
And my dreams are gone away from my side for acquaintances, for
handdrukjes here and chats there...
* * *
Incognito Nice!  Nobody bothers me home!  The morning, in my room, are so
quiet calm, with the persiennes still closed, and scarlet dahlias and gold
chryzanthemen on my desk for me.  To me are my old writers are open and historical atlases and I am writing to my"Journey through Egypt,"in which I will tell you how ancient tourists in Antiquity
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
118
traveling and sight-seeing were doing along the sacred Nile... I write so peaceful and calm and pleasant and the one written page flutters lightly over the other, and there is almost no sound in the silent avenue there are no automobiles yet,  which are so miserable drone and toot can (if you do not sit in) and there are still three little fox terrier who exhaust themselves the countess about me constantly and each
accompany foot-in-the-air with deafening yelp;  (I think only love the fox terriertje my inherits ante, because this animal is a baby: I take it even sometimes on my lap, and aunt looks then softened!!).
(It does not matter: she reads the Fatherland not...)
The Casino is closed.  Opera still murmurs in harmony and glitter yet
not melodrama.  But in Eldorado I scatter me in the evening though - incognito
- met te kijken naar puik-akrobaten in naar the dancer Vampa, with bare legs...!
Shocking!!
And whatever remains closed, open the suitcases where fur and
winter clothes were salvaged in, salted with naphthalene balls and peppery
with grains of pepper, which are far what we call in Holland 'Moth', but
what is here dichterlijker readily describes with den name of"Les Papillons...
- If you have a moment of time, says my wife at the door;  Would you like to come look at your winter suitcase... Madelaine (goeiert, which is now just everything!) is working to extract him...
Great emotion...!  What will emerge and how my fur white fox
my wife!??
Happy!... We shook fur and foxes, and...
It spreads perfume of pepper and camphor and naphthalene...
Ape...tsjie!!!!
But no swarm"papillons"from our fourrure and there are no holes in
nibbled by voracious larvae...
Happy!!  We breathe again... I see my wife delighted to she me...
But...
The velvet collar of my overcoat is crushed, proud of torsades blotter!!
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
119
Now, that takes cost me happy no more than a new, velvet collar...
* * *
A carriage at the door... It Fringant snorting steed eener fiacre...
Really it would be the first visit?  Acquaintances, doing so awkward, us
come visit... while we are not yet back to Nice??
No... it's just... Marcel, walking stick in hand, with his luggage, which
deigns to come back from his villégiature...
Now, as my servant Marcel arrives, then started the saison.
And why my wife says to me:
- Would we beyond me but do not let notify the Eclaireur, we are back
Nice, trip??
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
120
Nice
For the Indian Friends
I
She is white and opulent, white city of wealth, against her hills, like a white sultana, and behind her profile off the Esterel Mountains and the Maritime Alps, the first with wide cut and heavily chopped off contours honor, the other
with plumper, wavy lines, and the back of her blue and purple mauve
screens, which abuts against it in her flower-strewn hill on pillows, the
green palms of ever shaken her loose hair, like a mad promise of lust.
So she makes, the white city, always on whom her visit and admire comes to be that lascivious Chen impression of a smiling, lying lazily down upon woman who cares.
There is in some cities something manlijks, in other something undeniably feminine and Nice is very feminine, Nice is the female sultana City, which has nothing to do than to be nice, to smile and to ogle far, attracting, dream staring over  her blue sea that sparkles of gold sequins and pearl-lined waves, under a deep sky transparencies, showing abundant blessings of the Sun God
down upon her sinks.
So does she, always, the white city, this impression of light, air, sea, heat, glow, gloor, health and wealth and pleasure and easy pleasure to offer to
who comes to visit her;  so she makes that impression of a very chic to cocotte
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
121
under the Cities, or, if thou prefer this, a very expensive but superb
to be demi-mundane, only one, the most superb, the most beautiful, the most expensive,
brilliant: a Bacchante under the Cities, but a Bacchante more between
flowers than among grapes, a Bacchante among roses, carnations and irises, even in winter, especially in winter, and in the North her sisters and brothers, the other cities, a cold shiver in the rain and fog and snow.
She is very beautiful, and she is very nice to her flower-over scattered henvelkussens and to weêrszijde are, very beautiful, the other Riviera towns, her smaller sisters, and rows of themselves and turn as a result almost her to weêrszijde hand  on hand, one might almost say, because they touch so near one another.  They are all very beautiful, nice, white towns, very white against the purple mauve and bluish
mountain scenes, and as strewn with flowers: smaller bloemennymfen that the
great Bacchante, Nice, surround.  They are all very nice... and anyway, who comes from tropical regions and so much that has heard and read there about her,
she reveals disappointment, she, the big sister and the others: the smaller, white sisters...
Disappointment, who does cry is that now the Riviera?  Is that nice?  Is that the
Route de la Corniche?  Is that Monte-Carlo?  That Cannes and Villefranche
Menton...?
How often, of Indian blood relatives and friends, I have not
exclamations, those complaints should aanhooren full of disappointment and gently, gently, with tact and amicable sympathiesch must also understand weêrleggen.
Best Indian brothers and sisters, dear Indian friends, you come from
overwhelming, overwhelming primal nature of the tropics.  Many years are you, little conscious, usually unconsciously, overwhelmed and become overwhelmed by an immense
Nature, by nature immense lines and heavy-full monotone colors: ge
have felt over your heads, oppressive, an opaque blue dome as a dumb
sapphire, dazzling or frightening rigid skies;  did you look for your face off waves the giant Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
122
chains attached to volcano volcano, and everything to you was, was immense,
monotonous green and blue, majestic and oppressive, secretive of
suizing and noise ching: there were around you jungles of ferns, bòsschen
coconut trees, mysterious rustling bamboo fade;  giant, flowering trees with red and purple cal bunches of lilies and trees of paradise;
staircase terraces of cash sawahs, white flowering coffee groves beneath scarlet
dadap-thriving forests: landscapes, immense in size and frightening
of mysterious vulkaniesch past: sand seas that were once craters
volcanoes...
That have you for years and you talked about you, and thou art there are so used to it,
it that you hardly saw and felt.  It was always, immensely,
overwhelming and manufacturing angstigend and full of mysterious scratching noise... but you saw,
ge felt thou heard anything anymore.  Ge saw and felt your work and your business
only: thou heard all so very soon no mystery full vote more to you, in the
rigid skies, which still diamond shone glittering, but you could not frighten anymore, because you can expect hast to about natural and the supernatural, and in lived and had your business and occupation, as an element of commonplace ordinariness.
The element can still stunned, gnawing at your health, your wrecked
forces... thou wast pale and tired and weak and nervous.  But you abode still full of energy;  ge calculated your still other forces, and how long they would take you out to
serve and to work out, and you calculated how much more thou canst still save to...
finally rich, or reprocessed calm, but pale and tired and weak and nervous, to return to your original mother and homeland, to Europe, to Holland, full of the familiar oath ran memories of your childhood and youth years:
memories that wanted to find ge back to reality there whither thou
smàchtte...
But it was October, it was November, December and it was winter, there
over in Holland, and how thou also yearned for the
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
123
snow, thou, as a boy, to snowballs hast kneaded, your wrecked body
shuddered at the mere thought that snow, that wet cold that
piercing winter rains from Holland... and you thought to do better with first
go to the Riviera, to get used to that pretty, so highly praised Riviera, yet still half tropiesch: the azure beach of transition between burning Indies
en kil Holland.
Yes, thou still first wanted to see the Riviera and admire, thou first wanted to see Nice,
those fancy cocotte who superb half-fashionable among the cities, you do beckoning,
you alluring to mid of her little sister towns, all white with white villas, green palm of loose hair and strewn with flowers, roses, carnation and iris...
And the towns, and the City itself... they had the disappointment for you...
- Is that nice?  Is that the Riviera?
Sounded so your contemptuous, bitter and weary cry.  The superb cocotte of
Cities can not enchanted, you will not stimulated the senses, because the senses were since
years overwhelmed, overpowered, overwhelmed - even if it were you not aware, because you thought of other things: your job, your report to Government
or the culture - overwhelmed by the enormity, immensity, by huge, immense
landscapes, ondoorzienbare blue skies, diamonds starrenhemelen.
And tired, bitter, scornful, with a sneer"on the Riviera and Nice, betrokt ge
your rooms in one way or another 'palace' and thou didst the rooms small, the sea,
which thou resentfully uittuurde, dull, the palmetto on the Promenade des Anglais
scorched bezempjes... and the whole landscape of the Esterel and the Maritime
Alps a few insignificant mole heaps... and no more.
* * *
I do not blame your"sneer.  I understand your tired bitter contempt and I believe that it could not otherwise, that your disappointment however was fatal.  I believe that you, the beauty of
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
124
The ETI South - the Riviera, Italy, Greece - view and
appreciate and enjoy, need to go through a course and a school.  your body needs
healthy again, blood red, your sentences should be strong again, your soul again
fresh and young, to new young and susceptible to soft pressing and delicate nuances.
Because thou have lost the susceptibility, thou, overwhelmed by heavy tropical splendor.
And nature in Europe, which thou despise the nature of Southern Europe, as good as nature often of Northern Europe, is one of softness and tenderness of weeke ommelijnen and tender tones, and ye must again learn to like it  .
Compare our blue sky with yours over there.  I do not know why it is so
was, but the Indian sky was always me tight and punishment;  the blue sky on the Riviera, and also Italy, is entirely different blue: it is deep, translucent as blue crystalline, no, she is translucent as they were, a blue nothing, when saw ge through her in eternity, in the  ... sky shone Indian sky
I always have an opaque schittrend jewel, a dome of heavy
sapphire;  the sky over Nice is me from an unlikely transparency, is my ideal element, no dome, but an infinity, no jewels stupid,
but heaven itself, to see open, and by the presence of our star gaze... She is completely different, it is less oppressive, less overwhelming heavy azure, but more open, wider, deeper, by seeming more importantly, more tender and more ideal, an air  in order to dream away... Did you ever dream road in Indian blue skies?  ditch
thou not for her your cool homes, behind closed blinds?  And now, here, you not dreaming, in the morning, in the afternoon, away, in that blissful, soothing, blue
translucency, as thou wast pulled away in a remote, high paradise?  No?
Ge dreamed if not?  Well, learn to dream like that, and you will your health
recover: thou shalt bathe your overwrought nerves in a bad dream and
of blissful peace...
Learn to dream away in our blue skies, our blau-
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
125
We seas: a wide, soul beneficence.  The sun pours down upon you, as a favor, in a flood of beneficent gold and ge lies not gone for that sun: ge let you through its flood currents;  it allows a hell luminoziteit, but no more than you bear, you is beneficial, then good for you and your solar cure your cure
of azure.  And go outside: leather beauty still see you again our hills, without scolding them immediately mole heaps.  Because they are no mole heaps, and they
are clean.  They are beautiful in all seasons, they are clean in October and January, but they are especially beautiful in May.  Because May is still here - so the world order has not yet changed here!  - The ideal month of Spring.  You know, those March,
which the poets were not tired to sing, the month of roses and
nightingales, the March, in Holland perhaps in earlier centuries
which was once taken, but was deleted since long from the calendar.
The poets, who once bit the habit now had to sing the March,
mead went through and were a bit ridiculous, because there is no May wàs and
No spring in Holland, there was late winter, with another snow-rain shower and fro
once lit a nice fire and there was another one last cold and your
third touch of influenza...
Indian friends, there's Spring.  There is in and around Nice Spring May, of the ridiculous poets, and poets are not ridiculous here, as it Spring you sing.  It might be a little bolt to argue, sometimes done
is that here is the Eternal Spring, but in all CASES Mei here Spring, poetic Spring, Spring, which thou whole time not known in India that so thou forgot, and here, if thou willing to surrender,  you new ones for life and give new powers, which will strengthen the senses and will make the soul young and fresh.
Maybe have you to the Riviera not immediately such very bitter disappointment, if you arrive here at Spring.  The saison is over, the carnival is over, rushing the beautiful people go away; the great hôtels leêgen located and close
soon, the great jewelers of the Quai Chic (as we say), that's the Quai
Massena, close
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
126
and exhibeeren no more pearls of four or five tons or diamonds as dove eggs, but... it's Spring, it is truly Spring: the blue sky by apparent than ever: there dreaming as a tender, loving bliss about this  sultana white town, and she wraps close in roses, roses in thousands, in so many roses, it is a fairy tale: a tale of roses weaving Spring.  Come outside,
Come with me to mole hills like heaps, and desire no more, unconsciously,
be overwhelmed by tropical vastness and immensity, by
volcanic sequences and sand seas, but open your heart young again and
new receptivity, O oudgast, O weary, sick Indieschman, on the àl
charm of the real Spring, a resurgent Spring nature.  The air is transparent, the golden sunshine is to you is translucent, the sea for you
even if a transparent horizon.  Everything is fine, teêrtintig and tender, benevolent, smiling and sweet.  Around us weaves the spring, as with gold and green
glinsterdraden, diligently her tissues or, her thin loovergordijnen spans extending her thin canopies of Looveren over us and that fine, what meager thinness will perhaps surprise a moment, because you will not tropiesch its opulent, but it is me and I hope  ú, more sweet, charming, soothing especially the dense jungle lushness of giant ferns and bamboo impenetrability.
See, Spring blossoms swarming her out;  ooftboomen the swarm of blossoms and
Almond trees teeming with flowers, acacias teem with bunches and,
especially along the roads that we set, swarm the hedges of roses... Ge believes,
I exaggerate?  Ge thinks that I invent a fairy tale?  No.  It is the pure truth, which I am writing with a pen honest.  Along the roads that go to St Laurent du Var, St. Antoine, St. Isidore, St. Pancrace, swarm the hedges of roses, we're among the roses like a triumph.  These are hedges, shrubs, groves of roses, as it is May on the Riviera: it's Spring!  Roses, yellow, pink, white, the red roses have a delicate fineness of the porcelain: they are not
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
127
large, heavy, thick roses, but they are thousands of fine, small, soon verbloeide roses: there is a rush in her bloom, but defoliate they do, they are beautiful, they are ontbladerend perhaps the most beautiful of the fine, thin horizon roses our hills  tomorrow morning and have another thousand roses replace the leafless sisters.
You ever saw in India which rose spring?  Surely thou didst in your gardens beautiful, thick,
Persian fragrant roses, stem roses, but you ever saw there the immeasurable
pink spring?  Come see her here in May, the hills meander on, be on foot when thou powerful, carriage or automobile if you afraid you are tiring and even though our roads are dusty, bare of thick fabric, which opwolkt especially behind your  coach and car, all stuivelt the thousands of spring roses a fine powder as poudre de riz, they remain fine, thin, brittle, delicate beauties of our spring: one of the beauties,
and you shall see, understand, again feel overwhelmed Indiesch in your soul, O
oudgast, retiree o o finished Indieschman, if thou Europe love again
want to get, if you will, find the Riviera beautiful, so you not with a 'swipe' here To find all small and pale and insignificant and bitter back yearn for the country... which have long languished in years to ge...  all those insignificant and faded pettiness!
Come here in May, see our Spring, meander along our roads and rose Succumb
by those hiding in roses away, luring smiling woman under the Cities, and you
will again be young and healthy again...
II
I imagine, that you at your hotel by the sea are very early woken up and, like a true Indieschman to have called six hours before your first cup of coffee.
Presumably the waiter deigned not to react to the early call, or he has made a sleepy and wondered appearance
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
128
to your door, you said that the dairy farmer has spent a long time milk, and
So thou art a bit annoyed that thou staying in a first hôtel and anyway
no coffee can get on the hour, that you this at home, in India, are accustomed.  I am so deeply sorry for you, and to-day I completely addicting to you, distance
doing of my own, a hole in the day sleeping habits, I stand here
about six of your door and hope that you do want my company to-day
accept.  The loss of your coffee, you fortunately not too disgruntled, and ye shall benevolent and kind to my offer.  Well, I meant me
remember that you have entrusted to me yesterday, how thou looping in India have forgotten.  So I created a carriage and guard us your hôtel.  What do you think of my victoria?  Neat, is not it, glistening lacquer and nickel, with pneu tires, covered with a lovely horse, strong and well fed and my
driver, whose name I do not know, but then I kept the Petit-Brun 'name because he is small and dark, light equally polite"melon"for us.  And you ask me a bit puzzled:
- Is that your car?
And I answer:
- Excuse me, sir Indian friend, it is simply a carriage, so if there are twenty or thirty stationneeren on the Place Massena.  It is a vehicle for which we do not pay more than the standard rate, although the Petit-Brun will of course be grateful for a heavy tip.  And wonder a little, and rightly so, that my just huurrijtuigje is so elegant.  I also know of no other city where the cabs are so elegant as to Nice.  That came after the initiative taken by a
deceased friend of mine, conseiller-municipal this city.  He founded the
concours-d'élégance for fiacre's Nice, which is still held here in January for numbered cabs, which must have at least one month
driven.  Since we drive in such allerkeurigste elegant carts.
We get in, and you give me, it's like I had you in my
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
129
invited private carriage.  And we drive along the sea.  I call it the early morning, as you call it maybe too late.  A beading freshness dauwt on very light blue sea, on the even lighter blue sky.  It's all calm, soothing and parelmoêrachtig delicate hue.
- But the palmetto, there, on the Promenade...
And you teach me, a bit naughty, the scorched bezempjes.  It is
even so, they do not thrive, which once imported from Africa date palms.  They are alien as you.  They yearn back to the beaches of Libya.  Let me hope that you, O friend, thrive better here and you will not yearn back to the
roasted beaches, which left ge...
Petit Brun keeps silent for a kind of restoration programs, in summer
also arranged to receive sea bathing;  I order for a café au lait, which thou in thy hôtel kreegt not yet, and you enjoy the content in our carriage, and you are now so long as it can.
We ride to the Château.  That's a sweet row for once the silhouette
see city.  The Château is a hill;  a 'castle' is gone, but there is a fortress, and at twelve noon sounds of here off a shot, which thou regulates your watch.  There are artificial waterfalls and peacocks.  It sells the curious
Engraved 'cougourdons': pumpkins hollowed out, varnished and painted, to
amphorae for wine.  But I would like to point out especially the silhouette of the city.  See, there it is, in its Bay of Angels.  She is still in loomen dream, because we are here, O early friend from India!  Swarms about her a thin haze that verijlt.  She begins to slide, however, her shine on Bare villas.  Just below us squirms fur, dingy hue of old, the Old Town, urging the old houses in close
streets hung close together, with picturesque Washing well, according to the
Italiaansche habit of still Italiaansche, poor people who live there and from window to window stretches out the lines about where they hang their Washing well as a
Eternal decorations, flags and wriggle, fur vlakkerig in the sun, streaming
blowing in the wind.
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
130
There, far, laces the Esterel, rose-colored, a morning-pink mountain wall of beautifully carved broad contours honor.  There, extends the point of Antibes.  And the landscape
- The city at our feet, the coast, the mountains and the wide sea, road heaving
before our charmed eyes - we see his pearly shades and colors ochtendteêre always shine through the foliage, heavy green of pines, past the stout
tribes, like tables set up near: tables, where the distant perspective of beading and soft pink and teêrblauwe landscape improper dreamlike itself
verijlt, thence to the distance, the distance of unreal fade and
fabulous horizons... into the day with the bluer is also the
dreamlike unreality stiffer azure and as tangible really: everything will then clear signs, but the air is transparent, the sea remains clear: the ethereal delicacy remains our colors to the sun, there, behind Antibes point will go into an extravaganza of  gold...
This is a small tour, near, and because the Petit-Brun driving fast with his beautiful, strong horse, and we so sit easily in our 'own-buggy", he drives us Château to go down along the'  port,"the port, where a few very
luxurious white stoomyachten lying wealthy Americans, then along the
Zee, zoo op naar Mont-Boron in Route-Forestière.  Groote hotels - altijd hotels, en ge verwondert u om zoo veel hotels - hotels, voor wie de onmiddellijke, soms al te lumuze nabijheid der zee niet kunnen verdragen.  Nog eenige groote villa's,
and it is for us the silence of the pijnwoud, the kerkkalmte many stately strains columns...
- But I've been in India so having a lot of nature, you say;  and I'm in Europe
come to see people.
I smile and I understand.  And I give orders to the Petit-Brun, so, now that you know the way to nature - even if thou sudden desire to see no people
- To shorten the tour of the beautiful, quiet, green Route Forestiere, and drive back to the city.  So we drive to back down to the sea, and see there...
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
131
is the market;  will you there, how early it is, seeing people, many men and
crowd and hustle and vroolijkheid...
Thou find it good for us to get here and the Petit-Brun for tomorrow
to say goodbye?  On foot we are now going under the arcades and the... interests
Vischmarkt you not?  Look around for a moment.  The loud cry cal fish ladies show us bluish black, fat eels and matches well slangenbezweersters.  See the
beautiful lobsters and giant shrimp, giant crabs, and see especially
strange, beautiful fish.  They are silver and gold, blue and silver red gold
of scales: they have been the pearl and parelmoêrtinten of the sea, though the
strung bow waves and foam in their changing light shine, and they
seem like the treasure of the ocean, the sparkling jewels of the sirens and
nereids, or the whole of the trezoor Middelland Serbian water was poured there tables on those marble.  The types of fish which are strange and
monstrous, their names I can not mention all: time and again take me
singular basin, fabulous eyes huge antennae and tails curicuze:
our Vischmarkt is very peculiarly, and there, in large tubs, they sell the 'bella potina', the tiny silver little fish: fish eggs, pass slipped in hundreds, which mainly Nice To adores and he eats into national dish.  But to you above all to give many impressions, we go through all those wet and Glauke jewels of the sea to the vegetable market, a painter - and why dost thou not perhaps
have dormant talent for painting, O friend officer, friend or planter?  -
remarkable body of color too: here long cords and Board of pink onions, there
violet purple eggplants - the terong, so if thou say there there - the scarlet tomatoes and orange poivrons - very large peppers - while the fruits are fragrant piling up - we are after all in May - scented hills of strawberries and
big, black and red cherries, with the last apples and pears and apples and sina's
nuts, almonds and there among the beautiful scarlet fruits of the spine
the strawberry tree (arbousier) as of Pomona, honor you, an immense desert tomorrow
you stacked
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
132
has... Later in the summer, the Blessed on deeds - or horns of plenty were paid out - peaches, apricots, mulberries and figs, but now we are still in the early summer, and because I want to dazzle with colors, feed  I while we all walk income relish a great bag of cherries, we buy, the
flower market.  There are mimoza's: great branches, glittering with gold dust
stuivelende, gewemelde flowers;  there are immense pink and red and white
roses, this cultured and an opulent beauty;  it there are the irises,
paarsch, white and yellow, and Matthiola democratiesch dense and full of blooming;  there are the carnations, which especially proud of our Flora, in her aristocratic, very cultured and peculiar varieties, double, triple, quadruple,"panaché"with striped pink or amber or blood purple or teêrmauve petals, which
seem frayed or cut with scissors very delicate, as if it had entertained the elves themselves, who were distorting these flowers create gorgeous
artifacts.
Do not get tired of the flower sellers.  Arm you with patience.  For they are
more urgent than the ladies fish and vegetable women and doubting who both
perhaps whether such distinguished foreigners like us, but their self eel,
their homard, or will buy their peas and broad beans, the
flower sellers do not rest, we share umbels pushing under the nose before we
bought mimosa, roses and carnations have...
It makes you a little shy with so many flowers in the arm on street
run?  Come on, we do all of that here;  we provide here is not so much about our
'Dignity', and I'll help you carry the flowers and where you are now hungry,
we hasten back to their hotel - it is, I suspect, nine hours - and beyond me will you Really be able to get your first breakfast and surprised thou thy wife, who was not ready to join us, in our carnations and mimosa and roses  ...
Now tomorrow has become like a rich, golden fruit;  Now tomorrow has matured,
Now tomorrow is brilliant as a rozi-
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
133
gene golden blush.  I know of no such golden, rosy rosy morning, as we
enjoy Nice.  The sea is blued as a living azure, the air too and the whole atmosphere is like overcrowded gold atoms, full of health and
joy.  It is the moment, especially in the saison - from December to April
- That all the foreigners and snowbirds gather on the Promenade des
Anglais, between the Palais de la Jetée and the villa of the Duke of Rivoli, Prince Essling, grandson of the Marshal Massena, who was a son of Nice.
It's the elegant hour, the hour of colorful, oddball toilets: for the ladies very close, below the knees with straps pulled tight skirts and never
surpassed, immense, impossible, fabulous hats;  hats, which probably will never be surpassed in fabulous, immense impossibility.  Some
hats of the ladies are like inverted flower pots and fish kettles;  others are as
a warped floor mat in which a touffe roses or a feather duster or a
Native Headdress ornamentation to be inserted.  But what does it matter if an inverted flower pot or kettle of fish or a warped floor mat are the fashion... are
they good and elegant, and they appear in the golden morning at the elegant pm
Van de Promenade of the English.
It teems, the swarms black - proud of the colourfulness of the toilets - and the
Promenade des Anglais shines a white bowl, in which thousands koûlijke fly
kriewelen.  Well, you've longed for men and you will be satisfied, especially because so many people whom you see here, something curious, something original, something unusual.  But be careful with your acquaintances, how
easy to go here.  seated on a bench, the elegant asks
Rastaquouere from Chile or Argentina you either a flame or a quasi-naive information, which, if you're not careful, you may your purse can cost.  Or, as we go for a moment deJetée, to hear the concert tomorrow, you make or create your ladies
know a few others look quite decent and even still dressed ladies that infamous...
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
134
aventurière can be and mysterious plans with such easy
money-issuing aliens as you seem, especially when you a moment to
gaming tables and supports you have lost with a smile a few louis-d'or...
Who observes, this audience of North and South Americans, Englishmen,
Germans, especially from Russians Rumeenen, yes, of any nationality not highly
interesting, but certainly it is an audience that only under bénéfice of
inventory to assume, both the elegant gentleman, with pearl in his tie and diamonds on his finger, which as you propose under a beauty of a noble title (ask him to show his papers!), as the 'Camelot'  - often an authentically dilapidated baron!  -, That far-fumé lorgnetten sells at the garish sun or parelmoêren Binocles or whole flat, gold watch's à... 6 francs!
But that motley throng to observeeren is certain, even though you are not métier
psychologist, interesting, amuzant, nice;  it fills thy morning, your golden morning
and you go with a feeling that you you really do not get bored, back to your hotel for the great déjeuner.
Let us then observe the siesta.  Delicious, I think - I'm still enough Indiesch purpose - to spend or after tomorrow, me to undress and rest even for a moment to lose myself in the unconscious!  Then the Petit-Brun can make a great tour of the hills and along the rose hedges, which I
You have been spotted, and then you will maybe like to drink tea at Vogade, or in the Casino.  They are again the elegant meetings, which last until the hour
Dinner.
Whole life - maybe go thou after dinner to opera or comedy, if thou
not simply prefers drinking coffee in one of the bustling cafes where nice orchesten play regularly - is, fur, colorful and turbulent and without thought, especially without thought.  It is not possible to think in this cosmopolitan décor, but do not think that I do not appreciate why.  On the contrary.  It is good now and then not being able to think, to think it impossible, not only about great Kwes Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
135
tion, but also on the smaller issue of onszelve.  It is good now and then not to dwell on our own verdrietelijkheidjes, about business and family and bondage.  Nice gives us a salutary intoxication, awakens in us a Guldene drunkenness;  Nice we do, if unnoticed, a cure: a course of gold
sun, azure sky and pink-tingling levity: Three excellent sources to draw from new health and fresh spirits cal, for we prepare ourselves to so much more serious, so much less frivolous country, to Holland, you
presumably waiting at the end of this winter.
But thou repatriates to Holland, I should be willing to offer you the Carnival,
not alone, but the Carnival mead with you to celebrate the Carnival, which is unique
festive week of Nice, which rabid, short reign of King Folly with the
belletjesrinkelenden narrestaf in hand, and schelletjesklinkelende fool's cap that the Carnival, which everywhere else is dead or dying, but only here with us in Nice so mad and so brilliant still standing holds, with its magnificent procession's
illuminatie's, Veglione's en Redoute's...
So see you soon, and together, in 'clown' or 'domino' - and especially not in our ordinary parcels!  - To the Carnival: the gorgeous Folly of Nice, with the
Sequins and confetti strewn Rabies these superb cocotte among cities!
III
The carnival!
It's either already weeks before anything else, anything particular, something very vroolijks, something very dols vibrates in the atmosphere of the city, along streets hers and hers
shop windows, where already the color of the Redoute1 teem with jobs satin
and long, draped ribbons, where clown wigs and caps lying harlequin-1 already stacked
Redoubt is the great masked ball at the Casino in one or two standard colors: All costumes must be compulsory in those colors.
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
136
gene among the mannequins, which is the most graceful costumes parades, costumes,
which usually mean a certain topicality: air shipping, North Pole Discovery etc.;  it is whether there is already weeks in advance to the blue horizon Nice little rings and tinkelt of bells and bells, or indeed the fool's cap and narrestaf of King Carnival such and such already looming on the horizon.
There is agitation, already in the month of January - the first month of full
season - an agitation to which it is very difficult to evade.  You meet your friends in the street, and they ask you:
- Think you do mead this time again at the carnival?
And then you say, because you have not really times in the mood:
- Now... I believe truly that I am not Really this year more mead to do all that madness, I have already done so often.
Zoo told you in January, but... at the blue horizon ring and tinkle the bells and bells heller and shriller and... Carnival is King again his good city of Nice in raised... then you order, soon-soon, you  costumes and... you do once again participate in all the madness, because there is no escape: it's an intoxication,
who is your master, but a healthy drunkenness, a drunkenness
of gaiety and light-hearted frivolity, you a moment - no longer - you for fourteen days you do worry forget, that makes you laugh like a
child does hossen as a boy, which makes the shy brutal, and the portly very loose, which many, if not all bands, from"respectable"does pull out, so that you
sigh of relief, because truly in our ordinary life 'decency' our sometimes very tight pinch in many, many bands...
Because King Carnival is, one evening in February, its great city of Nice in
come.
That evening, the Avenue de la Gare beautifully illuminated.  It is a long, long
offing electrical, gold shining eerebogen, as the immense gallery of
a fairy palace: a deep
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
137
perspective of arches on arches arches after... But who truly magnificent illumination reigns not the carnival madness.  Nobody is costumed, confetti
teem still air;  publicly committed only to a friendly benevolent anticipation - we hossen yet and we urge not - mean the public is committed to see King Carnival entering his huge cart, behind him
Madame Carnival, and behind her the Char de la Musique.  That first entry
was stately and dignified and afgelo open within an hour.  Within an hour everything is done, everyone has seen the three monumental carriages, and everyone goes quietly
House...
That beginning is a bit boring, but it happens to be so: it is classic and genteel and boring... and we can not change it.  But we did well the three
carts seen.  This year, e.g.  King Carnival was a fantastic northern polar explorer on... a aeroplaan, and gemalinne is usually a graceful almée or odalisque,
- So there is no aktueele woman choosing him - sitting on a fabulous griffin;  and the Char de la Musique is thick quite frequently an immense dragon, whose open mouth thirty musicians have taken place and honk.
Now, King Carnival has then made his entrance and they install it, about
the Casino, in a kind of honor-pavilion behind velvet curtains behind which he continues to stay with them, so he is not coasting, during the parades... While Madame - How cruel!  - Easy with the muziekkar is stored in a barn: she sees her husband during the celebrations only official and never intimate, never behind
velvet curtains... That prohibits the etiquette!
Arm royal couple!  It is not to rule everything, even if it takes the
rule but fourteen days in the Reign of Folly and the Rabies!
That is the calm, solemn Entry, no more.  But the first following Sunday
Now the party... and it is truly carnival.
Day and night, amid a swarm of multicolored confetti and then
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
138
between a rigid railing of electric lamps, now défileeren all the carts and
Car, now défileeren all the groups défileert entirely the procession... It's definitely a very amuzant spectacle, and it is the carnival whose staid and out
compromised, look for a comfortable grandstand will.  But it's not the Carnival for us who want to participate;  who want to not only look, but mead want to be merry and silly and crazy, according to the supreme command of our lord and ruler, King
Carnival.  We who want to participate, do not sit smiling and staid look at a stand!  No, we already have our disguised in dominoes or clown, and
Armed with our pockets full of colorful confetti, we set off as soon as
Gun shot notify us that has come the hour of confetti hostilities
is.  Along the way - rallied many people to weêrszijde, to see the parade - we're in a nice close group of friends, all gecostumeerd and armed with confetti, and we hurl our confetti from right and left, and when we return
overwemeld are pink and green and purple and blue cal papers
dimes, we call the classics jovial exclamation weather;
- Thank you!  Thank you!  Again!  Again!  Always!  Continue!
To do especially as we never have enough of confetti, paper
dimes, and paarsch blue and green and pink.
Because we are costumed, we may run into the procession, among all the
Other masks, behind the carts and wagons itself, which is the most hilarante
pantomimes exhibit, we run between the cavalcades and analcades and all the
Groups-to-foot.  But we continue to run if not the whole afternoon, though!  because
First, we want every time, vary our dollar-and follies, and secondly,
we are thirsty.  We therefore find ourselves between and hopping through all that mad and
foolish people Carnival - and observe a minute how nice and cheerful and never rough, although very pretty, the people of Nice is still disinterest - we set so, I say, to Vogade, the cake palace.  Why Vogade is your rendezvous, I do not know,
but feel free to, on my authority, so that was it.  We go to Vogade where
we are different, elegant and
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
139
fashionable, drink tea at five o'clock.  We will now buy champagne.  A
current flows masks the pâtisserie shop in and fill behind the saloon.
Do not despair if you can not immediately see a free table!  A free table!  But that does not exist!  Come with me all mad and crazy doing here making compliments, because swearing oaths of eternal Carnival-love, we urge us
tjopvolle the crowd that fills the narrow aisles between the tables.  Remember,
we costumed, and that you feel completely different in a clown or a domino than just packet or in your ordinary frock.  We urge us so, politely
but silly and crazy, not rough, but very pushy carnival, and we see
a seat quite a different take on wheels, then we sit down to it, the one on the lap of another, whether we sit on the table, or at the points of others' chairs, almost always two on a chair, with our arms  more or less slender lasts densely cloaked dominoes.  That your grandmother while sometimes embraces and makes the courtyard behind her mask, very time does not matter.  Because you
grandmother amuses itself, and you amuses you!  We order our champagne,
it is to us like a pandemonium and roodgerokte tziganes fiddle their
fanatic amorous tunes and waltzes, and now, we need to dance, yes really,
Now we need to dance, dance, I swear to you, in the narrow crowded corridors
among the tables, dancing anyway, and thus lack the space, dancing to the
marble tables.  They are strong, I've never danced by a, I never need to pay!
We go on the street, and we truly feel that we are hungry, in spite of all
devoured the cookies and all the champagne.  For the Carnival void your stomach out.  And
So we mention our home, or our hôtel.  At our house is the 'cold dinner ready because all the servants also celebrate Carnival, and the cook does mead and thanks
to prepare it for 'hot dinner.  In the dining room is the table standing in front of our Carnival-goers with 'cold dinner covered.  Everyone eats when he wants and serves
themselves from the cold dishes, which he finds there.  We drink it just cham-Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
140
campaign at.  But not too long, because our carriage awaits us!  See, it's already at the gate of the villa!  It's a big landau with two horses, and it is decorated with flags, Japanese umbrellas and lollèngs.  For we do mead, though, we do
mead on the"corso illuminé.  Arm you with confetti... We drive soon enlightened eerebogen of the Avenue de la Gare, behind the carts and wagons.  The
cavalcades and analcades surround us.  The confetti swarm over our heads.
From some chic restorations fortunes confetti down
gewemeld, of the same color... Look, over there in the Bright-Armenonville, teeming with a dense cloud of mauve and violet confetti, close, close down, the masks and all the crazy people!  It's very nice that mauve cloud: it is like a dense swarm of pansies and more pansies.  Be convinced that those who are so generous with their confetti from the windows of an upscale restaurant for that evening thousands wasting confetti!  What does it matter!  Let us not always think of the economy and the social question.  Also Folly at times is good and healthy,
"Moral"in its time.  And the money is so flat and so rounded to roll out easily.  Come on, though we might give only briefly hundred franc from our confetti and not thousands, like those chiquards of Bright-Armenonville, let
We especially do not thrifty!  And because we after this crazy night, this night of light and of intoxication and madness silly, have a day of rest, we may at our
convenience let our carriage at the florist decorate with flowers, to the next
Middag meê te doen aan of Battle of Flowers.
But Bataille de Fleurs - there are two - how elegant too costly
flower decorated victoria's absolutely not always carnival and it has surprised me how these very elegant yet oncarnavaleske celebrations
could mix with the other, the real, the madcap celebrations of Carnival.  And
because I believe that you in India sometimes you have very beautiful, tropical flowers celebrations, we will but, after what have thrown bouquets, us, after a short rest and after a hot dinner,
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
141
(For thou wast already worried) verkleeden for the evening, at eleven o'clock, to the
go Veglione, the masked ball in the Opera.
The madness is rising to the top.  The opera hall, the scene itself created, and
without chairs and sofas, is already full when we come in, full of masked, gekostumeerden: the lodge are full, and above the lodge of the highest rank
Grinning àl the heads of former kings Carnival, huge and improper
ghostly carnival, as a high heaven down upon by the golden vapor
and tenderloin stofwemeling of some stuffy party atmosphere.  Dear friends, ge
did good, really good, with you kostumeeren because if thou only
your skirt had aangedost, and your ladies a low ball-dress - it is not permitted
- Thou wouldst you truly do not amuse.  Now, dominoes and clown, we amuse ourselves as joking, talking, laughing and dancing with everyone, everyone intrigue you,
flirt with all the masks, which are willing to flirt with us and let us really do not by themselves first proposals.  The masks with their perverse split eye holes,
making impish sparkle eyes, geheimvol and mischievous, giving a
strange charm to the women, who, hiding away in her hoods and encased
in her dominoes, behind safe as behind a velvet shore: a wall, behind which they us lords of creation, attack on her mind and her
gaiety.  It's fur and colorful and full, full of all, so full that sometimes is not for dance!  It is however nice to have a lodge, as a refuge, for a minute to flee in, looking down upon the motley throng, drinking champagne... to us who bore calm rest and we throw ourselves again into the nearest of the  compromised!
We can, however, with our ladies, keep this Veglione to one hour,
Half-two... Perhaps then it is better not to go, as we are with our wives and sisters and daughters.  Because then it starts Orgy: The Orgy of
half-naked bébés and cupids with fleshy, feminine shapes and tights, who and fro, she masters her and her gentlemen pouring her champagne in the decolletage of corsage or rokvest, the fêtards cupids and
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
142
bébé record and carry around in a very ferocious fun...
Fun, which is put on in the night restaurants Belle Meuniere, and Maxim
Ernest, to suppers where little is eaten, but lots of broken and whole
overpaid!
Redoubt then is the most wonderful feast.  Redoubt is truly one of
allerschitterendste festivals that I ever had, and where, have seen.  Redoubt is given in the vast hall of the Casino Municipal, and colors of Redoute
prescribed by the Comité des Fêtes.  The whole room is decorated and
electriesch illuminated in these colors, and no one is allowed unless
costumed in those colors.  We have had the Redoute Coqueliquot et Bleuet
(Scarlet and royal) Redoubt Capucine and degradations (all shades of
Indian cherry, all shades of red and yellow and orange), a party that was dazzlingly beautiful;  Redoubt Pompadour (pink and light blue, a little too sweet and too fine for the Carnival, where intense colorations always better meet).  This year, the redoubt was also very nice, maybe too fine, yet very graceful and beautiful: pink with black, black flapping bow on the shoulder.  Now imagine that immense hall, decorated in two colors;  that immense crowd, costumed in two colors: one
mirroring of the same satin - because 'side' and 'satin' were written before - and about mirroring the buckle guerite of gold and silver spangled, and all the jewels,
which costumes are decorated, and you can certainly understand that the Redoute
a feast, so sumptuous and so looks gorgeous and full of flavor as you truly nowhere else.
They are celebrations that Veglione and the redoubt of what we're going to have two
hours to supper afterwards, e.g.  in Belle Meuniere, suppers up to five, take six hours.  Ge so understand that if we two Veglione's (there are two), and a redoubt very quickly experienced tandem, our eyes are a bit small!
Do not worry, time to rest, it is not!  For you must still make mead
Battle of the Confetti-de-Plâtre.  Dat is alleen yesterday in Nice: dat is de battle puts
'Chocolates': confetti of plaster, like small balls, like thick hail that we meet on the street
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
143
or throw our cars into each other's faces... safely protected behind fine
iron wires masks, nearly all income showing an idiot flower sweet expressionless face, but that's why so fond, if all that sweet flower each bakkessen
going into a hail shower hail shower on everything white powder up 'chocolates chalk...
One has to want to abolish confetti thick quite frequently, as being a bit rough for our
about civilization... I think that day typiesch very, very carnival and I am glad that the day of 'chocolates' chalk is still held in honor...
Now are you tired?  Come on, do not!  It's the last day forward, pulling on domino
and clown, though they are not getting very fresh!  It does not matter because we are going to see the final fireworks before the Prefecture, where, in full view of a dense foule, Carnival, our king... is burned between cascades blazing
crashing silver and gold sequins between rains and thunderous banging of
blue and red and yellow, millions of sparks erupting, balls...
It is done!  Carnival has pulled out his soul from folly and only a
month after that we remember him for a while, during the celebrations of Mi-Carême,
celebrated, always with a white Redoute: Redoubt of ghosts and
ghosts and spirits...
While the hall of the Casino a procession of Druids and Greek
dancers (strange mixture!) the"fat ox ', pink and folding heavy,
gilded horns, round leads, which placid and badly fed animal will be raffled among the white satin still briefly after-intriguing spirits and ghosts and specters of
Blank Redoute.
Indian Friends, come!  The Carnival is unique from folly and madness and
pomp and gaiety... but every year it loses something all of his qualities: humanity is so very serious and the times are so difficult...
Indian Friends, come!  Come soon and celebrate Carnival, Carnival... celebrate the
is too late!!!
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
145
accountability
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
147
On February 1, 1911 Couperus asked his editor if he Veen addition to the already
for that year, planned collection Ancient stories still a bundle and serials
wanted to publish stories.  If Veen did not, he would bundle elsewhere
aanbieden.1 The editor replied:"I obviously reluctant to see that you are going to another of your books [...].  There are [...] this year already two books of je2 and really, dude, that's a lot for the Netherlands in one year.  To give one third now would still certain market glut zijn.'3 According Veen had the bookstore no sense
in bundles and gave Couperus the council to write a new novel instead of already bundling published serials and stories.  Couperus responded
on February 17, 1911:"You soft moan I received: so we will
but not thinking about"a bundle"for this year.  Only I would have liked,
you understood this well: I write regularly serials and short stories (I have to live my pen) for Fatherland and Gr.  Netherlands and I would gladly settled wishing to reprint stories again, if only for a modest
honorarium.’4
Three months later, it came to a rift between Couperus and Veen.  according to
Couperus had the publisher made him"ridiculous"suggestions in a letter dated May 4, 1911 for the publication of the novel Antiques tourism and some bundles feuilletons.5
thereon
1
Louis Couperus and L. J.  Veen: Gleanings from their correspondence.  Ed.  H.T.M.  Van Vliet.
Utrecht / Antwerpen, [1987].  p.  125.
2
Ancient stories Veen and Short arabesques at the Society for Good and Goedkoope Reading (Wereldbibliotheek) in Amsterdam.  Both bundles published in March 1911.
3
Louis Couperus and L. J.  Veen: Gleanings from their correspondence, p.  126.
4
Louis Couperus and L. J.  Veen: Gleanings from their correspondence, p.  127-128.
5
Eq.  Louis Couperus and L. J.  Veen: Gleanings from their correspondence, p.  129-133.
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
148
Couperus turned to publishing Holkema and Warendorf in Amsterdam.  He
publisher knew this well.  She gave the magazine since January 1903 Large Netherlands, of which Couperus was editor.
On June 13, 1911 Couperus signed a contract with Van Holkema and Warendorf.
He then sold the full copyright of Antique tourism and two collections of stories and serials for ƒ 1000 -.6 More than a year later, when the relationship Veen was restored, Couperus would confess that he had three books 'on the cheap'
One of them verkocht.7 the beam was lowered down upon the swallows... He was in
December 1911 published by Van Holkema and Warendorf.
Sources
Our knowledge, are the stories in The swallows perched... the
next narrated authorized sources by the author:
A. voorpublikaties Magazine:
"Small novels.  The country December 24, 1910, First Evening Journal A, p.  1-2
(I); 7 januari 1911, Eerste Avondblad A, p. 1-2 (II).
"Arnaldo and Candido.  The country November 19, 1910, First Evening Journal A, p.
1-2.
"The young king.  Fatherland December 3, 1910, First Evening Journal A, p.  1-2.
"When I was a little boy... '.  Fatherland October 8, 1910, First Evening Journal A, p.  1-2.
"Kids Souvenirs'.  The homeland October 15, 1910, First Evening Journal A, p.  1-2.
'Melancholy'.  The country December 31, 1910, First Evening Journal A, p.  1.
6
The contract is part of the Literary Museum in The Hague.
7
[Louis Couperus]: Value Heereveen / Amice;  Letters of Louis Couperus to his publisher.
Ed.  F.L.  11, p.  128. Bastet.  The Hague, 1977. 2 vols.  DL.  1: 1890-1902.  DL.  11: 1902-1919.  In:. Behind the book 12 (1973), Vol 1/3 and 13 (1974), Vol 1/3..  DL. 
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
149
"Sparks and sequins.  The country November 26, 1910, First Evening Journal A, p.
1-2.
"How a serial... is not written." The country December 17, 1910,
First Evening Journal A, p.  1-2.
"The nights.  The country November 12, 1910, First Evening Journal A, p.  1.
"The temptation".  The country December 10, 1910, First Evening Journal A, p.  1-2.
'Boredom'.  The homeland September 10, 1910, First Evening Journal A, p.  1.
"The Giants, the Enchanter and the Maiden".  The country September 3
1910 First Evening Journal A, p.  1.
"The spark".  Fatherland October 5, 1910, First Evening Journal B, p.  1.
Incognito Nice.  The homeland November 5, 1910, First Evening Journal A, p.  1.
'Nice' under the collective title"Sketches and silhouettes of cities.  The locomotive July 2, 1910, First Journal, p.  1-2 (I);  July 16, 1910, First Journal, p.  1-2 (II);  July 29, 1910, First Journal, p.  1 (III);  July 30, 1910, First Journal, p.  1 (IV).8
B. published in book form: Louis Couperus: The swallows down upon
ironed... Amsterdam, Van Holkema & Warendorf, [December 1911].
Modern Library.  Series of Contemporary Novels.  [Vol.  III.] A
band drawing by André Flanders.
Although there is no correspondence between Couperus and Van Holkema and
Warendorf on the production of the swallows perched down upon... surrendered, but
it is clear that the periodical publications of the serials and stories have served as copy for the book edition.  A number of errors occurs in both the
fatherland and the locomotive as well as in the book for publication.  These errors should the
Both newspapers have been taken and have been seen by Couperus overlooked.
Moreover Couperus had a habit of the numbers of the country and other
newspapers carefully
8
'Nice II' is published under the collective title;  "Nice IV 'was recorded in the book published without title as part of' Nice III.
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
150
to keep them sturen.9 by pooling the serials as copy to the publisher
Couperus himself corrected the tests of the book edition, because the order
the stories and the changes to the text of the beam relative to the
magazine versions can not possibly be attributed to the setter or the corrector of the printer (or the publisher).  Couperus, moreover, had the habit
the trials of the publications and the first edition of his book itself
correct.  There is no evidence that he lowered down upon for the first edition of The swallows... this habit departed.
The circulation and sale of the swallows perched down upon... No figures
known.
Tekstkeuze
coated for this edition of The swallows down upon... is the first and only during
Couperus's life appeared pressure chosen as the base text: he represents the
last active authorized version by the author.  Couperus delivered their copy and testing its self corrected.  is the text composition
use is made of the copy of the first pressure which is located in the
Royal Library in The Hague (sig. 943 G69).
corrections
in the text of this edition, partly on the basis of a word-for-word
Comparison of the magazine versions of the stories in The swallows down upon
coated... with those of the first edition, the following corrections below
applied.  After the page number and line number is first improved
data release;  after the 'German commas (/) follows the initial, erroneous reading.
The last one is marked with an asterisk (*) as they are also
9
Eq.  General justification of the complete works of Louis Couperus.  Utrecht / Antwerpen, 1987. p.  25-26.
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
151
in the magazine version voorkomt.10
7,16
Negligible / negligible
7,19
written?... / written?..
9,12
memorable events / heugenisssen
14,10
Dorothée/Dorothee
18,15
... in / out..
20,12/13
Barricade earths / barrics earths *
21,4
Zoû/Zoo*
26,18
'Merry Widow' / Merry Widow *
28,30
concerns... / concerns..
37,32/33
no more pain / no pain
40,18
once / once
47,22
Magiesch '/ magiesch
49,6
‘oleander’.../‘oleander’..
52,22
Aimard.../Aimard..
53,24
... risk / danger..
54,27
sir... / sir..
59,12
winged / geveugelde
59,19
magical / fairy-like *
61,25
ugliness / leelijheid
62,28
live... / living..
63,30
Is/In
67,8
flâneeren / flaneeren
70,12
'Despite' / 'believed' *
70,29
Pailletje, / pailletje
80,9
and sleep / and and sleep
83,9
veel./veel,
87,11
Thank you...? / Thank you?
87,26
... talk / chat..
88,8
waistcoat pocket / vestjezak
89,12
Disgusting / disgusting
10
The contents of the swallows perched... is placed in the front of this issue.
Not adopted the note under the table of contents:"These sketches published in advance in the Fatherland and the last"nice"in Locomotive '
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
152
90,21
everyting everything..
93,18/19
Art Maker?  The soul of an artist,
... which is not an artist?  The
Target / Kunstenmaker?  The target
96,14
Filet... / filet..
96,24
not not..
97,35
bijou/byou*
98,8
bijou/byou*
98,29
Aller-eerste-klasse-hotels / go-eerste-klasse-hotel
99,16
aimless / aimless,
karrevoerder... / karrevorder of... 11
101,8/9
104,33
Princess / Princess: *
107,18
ask / asked
111,17
exquizen / Equiza
112,1
Spark / Spark
112,34
àl sunny / sunny all *
115,19/20
afforded!!)./ afforded!!) *
116,6
Paris... to / from Paris..
116,6
sure sure..
116,11
... train / train..
117,11
Feeërieën / feërieen *
118,10
verteederd!!)./ verteederd!!) *
118,22
by: / by:
120,6
Estérel-gebergte / Esterel-gebergte *
121,10
weêrszijde / weêrzijde
126,26
acacia's/accacia's*
129,6
palmpjes / palmjes
129,29
under / below
130,1
Estérel / Esterel
130,16
extravaganza / Feerie *
132,24
anjelieren/anjèlieren*
133,35
The
134,31
busy busy*
135,20
of ‘dominò’/‘of dominò’*
11
'Cart-carrier' is spelled correctly in the publication;  'Finished...' is both in the publication as in the first edition.
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
153
138,1/2
Alle de karren en wagens, scrolling nude
all / all
141,10
good good;
variants
The first printing of the swallows perched... shows respect to the
magazine versions of the stories the next word versions below.  After
page number and line number is given first reading of the first edition;  After the 'originate-for-sign (u003c) follows the earlier version.
8,28
pages u003cpages, then some
lower columns in this courant
19,26
love u003csweet in the garden
21,7
are going to go u003c
38,32
Prince of u003cPrince
44,30
I have u003c
46,15
Black u003cwhich Black
48,16
a god u003cgod
49,24
All this made jointly u003cBut
made together all
52,16
Crèves in u003ccrêves:
54,32
sky, u003csky with
55,18
hissing u003conly
59,4
is u003c in
63,10
the last u003cit
66,34
Brown u003cbrown bronze
72,2
Lady cities, u003ccities: Nice is under
Woman cities
78,26
Heart u003cmy heart
78,35
dispassion u003cpassionateness
82,3
Vestigate in the
torch-afglans and volatilize
82,24
other u003cother
90,25
example, u003cpreference
120,2
For the Indian Friends u003ccommand
is missing
126,24/25
ooftboomen u003cooftbloemen
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
154
129,3
dauwt u003cdances
129,14
also u003csimultaneously
129,28
to u003con
130,5
his u003cher
131,28
there u003cthe
131,33
scarlet u003cdifferent
132,4
colors u003cflowers
134,33
Therefore u003cdecorum
135,3
bondage u003cHealth
138,8
our u003cold
139,26/27
Numbering missing u003cIV
141,4
made u003cfloored
truncation Characters
In this issue of The swallows perched... these must
hyphenation characters as a hyphen read:
9,8
Renaissance-
97,17
give-
25,1
circle-
97,25
Financie-
26,3
operetta-
98,27
in-
27,31
from-
99,29
tea-
29,9
the-
100,4
tea-
29,11
the-
100,11
and-
29,20
Small-
105,25
foreign
32,1
gewitte-
131,3
Small-
71,3
from-
141,9
party-
75,30
against-
153,25
female
* For the bibliographical data was made under greater use of the
Bibliographic Repertory Louis Couperus, a project subsidized by S W O
edited by G. Borgers, E. Braches, K. Reijnders performed by Marijke
Pfeiffer-Eggen.
For the edition principles of the complete works of Louis Couperus: General
accountability of the complete works of Louis Couperus.  Utrecht / Antwerpen, 1987.
The edition principles established by Ernst Braches, John Fountain, Charles Reijnders, Marijke Stapert-Eggen and H.T.M.  Van Vliet.
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
