The swallows perched...
Louis Couperus
edition H.T.M.  van Vliet, J.B.  Robert M. Boelhouwer and Cora
The Weij
source
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched... (eds. H.T.M. van Vliet, J. B. Robert M. Boelhouwer and Cora van der Weij).  Publisher L. J.  Veen, Amsterdam / Antwerp 1993
For accountability: http://www.dbnl.org/tekst/coup002zwal02_01/colofon.htm
© 2009 dbnl / H.T.M.  van Vliet / J.B.  Robert / M. Boelhouwer / Cora van der
Weij
7
Small romans
I
I am convinced that within not too long a time, say, within a century, no novels will be written more.  No novels will be more
to be written, since there is no more novels will be read, not because
no novelists will exist anymore, because even a long time after that no
novels will be written, novelists will be born: one
novelist is born and the genus will continue to live on, while the novel itself will be already dead.
So I predict to you;  think again about a century to me!
No, no novels read more.  If I see around me in the circle
from family and friends, I'm considered the novel as a negligible quantity.
My family even read my novels are not;  my acquaintances told me vaguely, with
slapping handshake, during the last years already:
- So... you have again written a novel...?
And there was a well affable, good-natured beklaging in their weary voice...
My friend realized it reads novels, not even in Italian;  read my wife
Nor never more novels;  she reads it as mine by, out of courtesy and... Les Trois Mousquetaires (never anything else) as she is going through a sleepless night and I...
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
8
Oh, reader, I read even my own novels, as I wrote them, I read them no longer, and others' novels I did not even pick up!!
And question now look who reads novels... and share mead me, but draw from it
patented critics who do it, mechanically, from the nature of their métier...
And your conclusion will be, I believe, a Great Zero!
The novel is not read, and within a century, the novel will no longer
written...
But...
There will always be, at least another hundred years, novelists are born and they
will write, they will pour out like in other forms than that of the novel, very modern, yet molded shapes maybe...
And long, long time will still lurking germs of the novel in the pride
himself: working spirit of novelists...
So as they germinate in the mind of your feuilletonist, who wants no novels
write.
They germinate, they shoot out, like tender green plants weeds...
I see them on the fields of my mind, and as I would say, look, a
violet... look, an anemone... I say:
- Look... a novel!
But the flower is not the lush forest...
I pick the flower, anemone or violet, sometimes reader, reader, offer you, and it will be one of the Little Novels.
Little Novels, which are no bigger than a few pages;  Little Novels,
which the Great Romans had to be...
If I wrote novels...
If I were not convinced that soon the"novel"as a genre too old-fashioned, would be thrown overboard, even by the novelist...
* * *
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
9
Small Romans...
Who novelist was born, she sees again and again around him, germinate on
The fields of his mind, in the fields of Life.
I want you present a pick, a Kleinen Roman...
* * *
It was in an Italian city, which I will not mention.  It is a shrine of art, they are a wealth of antique and Renaissance splendours, and her palaces as
Fortress event, built with hewn stones in rock facets.  In an animal palaces, historical home of art, full splendor of Renaissance and antiquity, full of
memorable events of history that city itself, lived a prince.
He was poor.
He lived in his palace historiesch with his mother, proud woman, with his
brothers, cousins, some clerks...
He was poor.
The great gate of the palace was always closed.  There were never parties and
ricevimenti.  The prince had no cars, no cars even.
He had nothing but his historiesch palace, its antique furniture and unsaleable treasures, and he lived life, between his parazieten-relatives,
a very modest, simple man, his heart full of the melancholy to the
decay of earthly greatness, powerless, to whom melancholy is a goal
office to provide.
He was a most loving man.
He was a gentleman, a gentleman from head to toe;  He was a good son to his
proud mother;  He was proud of his poverty, a magnanimous and generous brother and kinsman;  a gentle master who operated him.
Everybody loved him.
In the city he knew everyone and everyone loved him with a deep rooting
pity for the animal decay princely GLOBAL
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
10
theory, which had been the glory of the city.
He was gentle, generous, gentle, courteous, tender, never rude, helpful, sensitive to art and beauty.
He was a noble man, so if one finds little more in our modern times
of selfishness and arrivisme...
A woman met him, and loved him.
She was a Polish princess;  her birth was almost royal and because her
family the Russian Government was devoted, was this estimate and wealthy
left: whole provinces were the young princess dowry.
She was not pretty, but she was still amiable appearance and she was graceful, even though they had a lack of leg that made her limp here.
She was young, she was sensitive to art and beauty, she was gentle, generous, gentle, courteous;  it was a rare noble nature, with a pure and tender heart.
She loved the poor prince.
The two families, almost evenboortig, discussed a possible marriage: the young
Princess need to marry money, and though her family might have to
regal relationships of a higher nobility than the prince, the prince still belonged to
Italy's first families.
Since the prince seemed to hesitate, -the princess thought of pride, she -was the one who asked him to marry, telling him that she loved him, that she not him
Another reason for the wedding also need to ask, and she added:
- Let me hope that if you are my husband, me too thou shalt love, if I.
He was agitated, he assumed.
They married.
To marriage was the city of joy, after marriage seemed old,
to revive historic palace from his dusty death, to re Itteren of
party lights, there was celebration and ricevimento, there were flowers and banquets, there
Was in geluk...
Shortly...
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
11
* * *
Heel Korten tijd...
Barely a few weeks...
The prince could not get to love his wife.
Those who adored him, those who could have a royal wedding, but her
poor Italian Chen prince had married, she who had given new glory to the
dilapidated grandeur, she was in the palace as an intruder.
Because he did not love her;  he simply could not get to love her...
He hated her...
He hated her so that he was rude to her.  He was clumsy.  He mocked her for her lame foot.  He blamed her for having married him,
impossible for all sorts of reasons, which he invented sataniesch and hurled her into her face.
The suffering that this woman must have made by, O reader, is not it
touching theme for a psycho logical, modernist novel...?
He hated her.
* * *
He hated her so that he who as a young man had lived quietly and silently, venal
women sought not only that, but she received with bad friends and partied with them in his palace...
The princess, in her room, heard the gilkreten of the orgy.
Oh, reader of the novel, watching at her, see her to torture!  Remember,
they had everything may require a woman in this world except love
her husband, who hated her, whom she loved.
One night - it was in the Opera - she entered into her lodge with a friend.
About her flat on her lodge in another lodge, the prince sat with three of his
Masters.
The whole room looked from one to the other lodge.
- Want to go?  whispered the friend to the princess.
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
12
She smiled and said:
- Yes.  I stay.
She stayed the whole evening.  About her in his box, was the prince among his three mistresses, he paid with the money of the princess, the whole evening, and the loud laughter of wenches, bevonkeld jeweled, sounded to the ears
Princess.
And this soul riddle was: he who was always there for everybody nobleman, gentleman, noble, courteous, gentle, mild, tender... for his wife, who adored him, which he hated, and only for his wife, a  was cad.
He was a cad for her alone.
He remained for all the others courteous gentle, noble nobleman...
* * *
The day after the night at the opera received the princess a boy in her bedroom
Englishmen painter.  The young Englishman had the princess already loved for
her marriage: he, civil status, had never thought of a marriage;  she had never had anyone else love than the prince.
The princess had within the English painter in her room, before the eyes of
the prince.
- Wien you receive here, in your room, in my palace, ma'am?  asked the prince.
She said cool, but it broke her heart:
- My lover.
The Englishman looked solid at the Prince.
The prince bowed, sarkastiesch;  he said:
- Oh!  - It is excellent: pardon my indiscretion!
And his laugh hate weêrklonk along the stairways and halls.
* * *
The princess went abroad with the English painter.  And her family,
her friends, her acquaintances, her research
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
13
servants and attendants, all have approved what she did.  They said:
- She has suffered too much: the Englishman has its very sweet...
But she...
She continued to love the prince.
The prince died suddenly.
For the palace, unexpectedly, the princess rose from her car.  She was in
deep mourning;  a lackey carried a wreath Immensen.
- Where is it?  she asked the suisse.
They led her into the Chapelle-ardente.  There, on the bier, his mother,
were his brothers and cousins, and princess among the gloor of candles and
Pine song of the discourse of priests saw him... kill...
And she fell for his body, unable to control herself, and said:
- O, Philip!  Or, Philip!  Or, Philip!
Her lips squeezed his praying, cold hands.
One had her, almost violently, erect.  They carried her from fainting
smart heen...
* * *
The princess married the English painter, and all felt good, because the
painter loved her very much, and said:
- She has suffered too much;  His love is likely to comfort her...
His love ever given her comfort?
I ask myself, if I go along the historic palace, which is now the ancient, proud mother, brothers, cousins ​​eat the bread of charity from the hands of the woman who
their son, brother and kinsman - a noble man for all except
Hair - hate as a cad could treat...
And remember, this small Roman a Roman Grooten could be.
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
14
II
They were called Alwine and Dorothée, and they had come to Nice from Rostock.  Alwine was separated from her husband, who had been an accountant at a banking house,
and she was able to obtain that her three children to her former were far: the man did not want to oppose it, because he himself, always in the office, not
knew what to do with the kids and had won himself.
The children were named Elsa, Willy and Kätchen and were thirteen, twelve and six years.
Alwine was already in his thirties, Dorothée, barely, was in his twenties.  The two
sisters looked at each other;  they seemed no different than two quiet Germanic women of the civilian middle-class, with calm faces blonde, in her
a Germanic braid around the head wound, both dressed in simple
dark tailor-suits and linen blouses.
The three children were lovely children.  Elsa was a sweet, gentle, a bit
spindly grown girl;  Willy turbulent but real boy;  was Kätchen
a dear, like a little Red Riding Hood in her red tippet and red, closely enclosing the blond hair, wool kaproentje, and they were brought up all three well.
They had a kind and gentle children's voices and the girls were a little kniks
as they saluted, an obeisance tje, and Willy bowed deeply than his boy's back, as if he were a small dansmeestertje.
Alwine, who had after the divorce, a sum of four thousand marks was permitted,
After an interview with Dorothée, decided to go to Nice.  It was still early,
September.  The great warehouses were closed, the hotels also.  The city awoke
barely out of her long summer siesta.  Alwine, Dorothée and the kids got off
in a hôtel at the station.  And the next morning, all five accumulated in a fiacre
- A beautiful blond little band together, especially for the kids - they drove around to look for an apartment meublé.
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
15
They had seen some apartments that were its too small and too expensive.  they
reason still around and around and the kids had pleasure in the trip.  The gate of a villa they saw apartment meublé;  the two women alighted;  the
children, blond nice little tribe in the cart and the driver remained joked with them;  Little Red Riding Hood was on the box and rode beside him.
The villa belonged to an old French countess;  the countess inhabited one
floor, the top one.  She had earlier with her married children, occupied the whole villa.  She had known much sorrow, her daughters died;  the
finances went bad.  However, she could not sell her villa because it was attached to the house.  They rented now, Furnished, because it was more advantageous, the
two other apartments.
The old countess saw from her balcony still hold the carriage, get the women.
In a sunbeam, the children in the fiacre were the sweetest group: lokjes blonde, white faces, sweet playful ways.  The two women appeared
Quiet, calm, slightly Civil and looked where they had to call.
The countess had no caretaker anymore.
- Marie, the countess called to the old cook, her only maid who was just trying to make the bed of her mistress.  There are ladies... definitely for the
apartment!  Go to meet her soon: they seek.
The countess was a bit nervous, to her apartment.  The first floor of the
Villa, rez-de-chaussée, was very well leased to a painter, but the second floor was empty, and was last winter even remained empty.  Gemeubeleerde
apartments to rent in Nice is difficult, a chance.  Sometimes a zoo
apartment at once, though, hired well in September, to wealthy Russians,
Americans who do not like the hôtel life.  Sometimes there is even no one to
look, to the despair of the landlord.
- Yes, Madame la Comtesse, the cook came back;  those ladies come
the apartment.  I've already let up.
The old countess, dignified lady, black woolen cloth over unless
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
16
rendered back, went down the stairs to the middle floor.  They kindly greeted the two ladies, and she heard once that they were"of Allemandes.  They did not 'les Allemands;  in war, forty years ago, her son, a wart, killed, murdered by 'les Allemands.  She was indeed friendly, but a
little high, a little bit cold.  The cook had the windows of the rooms
opened, showed the apartment.
It was simple and neat Furnished: there linen was stacked in the cupboards;
There was Christophle silver in the buffet.  There was no luxury, but everything was very
Enough.  The apartment is very pleased to Alwine and Dorothée.
- And how much is it for the winter, ma'am?  asked Alwine.
- Three thousand francs, the countess said a little high;  she asked five hundred francs more than they would have asked to Russians or Americans.
- Oh, that's good, Alwine said.
- And once, when moved entirely to pay, continued the old countess.
- That's very good, ma'am, Alwine said.  Yes, that's always so...
- You can submit me certainly recommandaties, right?  said the old countess.
Because I have not had the pleasure to know you and the habit that locataires
submit certain recommandaties if they gemeubeleerde apartments
hire me... Can I join your consul?
Alwine and Dorothée another saw.
- The consul?  Alwine hesitated.  We have not been with him.  We only arrived yesterday.  The hotel is expensive;  we wanted once our apartment
Search... No, ma'am, I can not submit recommandaties Really I
I just adjust my... This lady is my sister... There, in the carriage, mine
children...
- What cuties!  cried the old cook out on the balcony.
- It might be better, madam, Alwine hesitated;  we come back... as we were with the consul?
Suddenly, the old countess saw the vision of its empty apart-
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
17
partment, again for a whole winter.  And she had, from the balcony, the fiacre
seen, full of blond curls, white faces, nice playful children's mannerisms: a trolley-full of sweet rosy youth.  She had always loved children...
- Ma'am, she said to Alwine.  I would never in the habit locataire's
to take, which may bring me no recommandaties because an old woman
as I can in a city like Nice not be too careful with whom she takes in her home.
But you both seem to me so sweet and simple, your children, out there, so make a beautiful little troop, I... if you give me three thousand francs at once
pay... no wants to make objections.  We make a kontraktje on, you pay and the apartment is yours...
Alwine drew paid, and they drove back to their hotel to the suitcases
let get.
- Madame la Comtesse was happy, this time, said the old cook,
with the apartment.  And once in September already paid for the whole holiday!
- Yes... said, hesitantly, the countess.  But I know them women... Et puis, ce sont des Allemandes...
- They have at least once been paid;  Madame la Comtesse surprises can not
have, the cook said;  especially because the women seem tout ce qu'il a the
plus honnête... and the kids are babies.  Come on, now Mrs. need not worry.
Russians are unclean and pay are poor, and Americans
inaudible... really, so a neat German family truly is still preferable...
The Countess deposit the money away.
And they repented, they unknown, neat German family, with the cuties
of children as boarders had taken in her home.
* * *
One morning early the painter of the rez-de-chaussée speak to the countess.
The countess, trembling, received him.
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
18
- Wat is er, Mr. Armand??
- Comtesse, the painter said.  I am of the night, came home around one o'clock.  The
grille of the villa and the front door of the house were wide open.
- Oh God, oh God!  Countess trembled.  I still get killed again!!
- It is already the fourth time, I think that opening the grille and the door, and I want to warn you.
- Oh God, oh God, lamented the old woman.  What can I do, what can I do, I do,
an old lady?  Monsieur Armand, it's those German women, down, sure... I will tackle them, and print them at heart, she doors anyway
to shut...
The countess was said to Alwine, and Alwine, that they are not allowed to open the doors, but it was the old cook.  The countess, very sure of her maid, knew
better...
And since she slept no more, and listened from...
Or spied out, in the dark, on her porch, down the stairs.
* * *
She heard and saw the following:
By eleven o'clock, as the rest had sunk about the villa, whose grille and door old cook had closed carefully, scrapping, they Dorothée, be it Alwine, down and opened with her keys, door and grille...  Modest
men's steps resounded on the cement of the garden... Modest men get
cracked just slightly over the steps.  At the apartment of German women kept the door ajar and her passage was lit up to three hours...
The old countess slept no more, and they always aroused the old cook.  And they
saw an ass of persiennes or down the stairs, trembling bowing,
The humble men come through the garden, the open front door, slightly increase the marble stairs, and disappear into the apartment of the German ladies.  there
were men with, as gentlemen, as a half-lords, as workmen.  All positions shin up by night, until three o'clock, give rendezvous in the apartment of
German ladies...
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
19
- And we thought that it was such a neat ladies, whispered the old cook.
Would they play, Madame la Comtesse?
- Yes, they certainly play, said the countess.  A clandestine roulette... in my house!!  O
God, oh God... I'm definitely murdered again!!
They joined up with her maid, barricade the doors, and the two
old women slept no more, no night...
* * *
Sometimes the men were drunk when they went away, at night for three or four hours,
but their voices are muted however, modest.  Once, on the stairs, saws
the countess and the cook, then curiosity overcame her fears, Alwine
and Dorothée, with loose hair, in open, white robes, saying goodbye to her
visitors.
- Oh God, oh God, wailed in her sleepless nights, the old countess;  what can
I do, an old woman who has no one to help her!  The police inform??
- For God's sake, no, ma'am!  The cook pleaded.  Never the police!  Never
the police!  That would only create scandal for Madame la Comtesse and the case
worse...
It was the saison now, and the nightly parade of male visitors were
busier and busier.  The painter no longer warned that grille and front door remained open the whole night, every night.
On that day, in the garden, in the sunny winter morning in January, the three played
blond children sweet and lovable, and when they saw the countess, they made do kniks and a bow, so as neat German children.  By eleven o'clock appeared for a moment and Dorothee Alwine also in the garden: two calm German women
Citizens-middle class in linen blouses and dark skirts, a Germanic
plait the crown.  The countess was watching, they do not even brushed the face.
They were simple, modest, calm, quiet and unassuming, and installed in wicker chairs with a German handcrafts: tafelloopers with a great,
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
20
reds embroidered stitch.  The children played, sweet and kind with one another, never
noisy, never bothersome.
Together were women and children there, in the garden of the countess, a very
neat, German citizen family that modest wintered in Nice.
* * *
But the countess did not sleep anymore, because she was shaking the whole night in fear that they
would be killed.
They also did not look down the stairs at night;  She looked even more by persiennes in the garden: she crept shivering under her blankets, and she had wanted that would look old cook in her room.  With suitcases and furniture, every
night, the two women barricaded the doors.
And increasingly, as they listened in, she learned to open the already closed doors, the modest pace of many men through gardens and along stairwell.
Furthermore, no sounds...
Even when drunk stumbled visitors, this rumor was immediately muted,
there was lulled discrete votes...
The Carnival was approaching.
* * *
One night, at five o'clock, there was, after a few relatively quiet hours - Alwine and Dorothée were driving Veglione - more noise in the garden than usual.  Coarse tuning
rough men... And the countess and her maid, curious, saw the
persiennes two vulgar, drunken rock jetty, which came home with Alwine and
Dorothée, both of them in simple, white dominoes.  The rock pier, with the two
German women, also went to her apartment.
Among them the Countess heard this night more noise.  There was much laughter, there
was clinking of glasses, there was suddenly a klettering of shards, as if a mirror with a heavy object was thrown.  Then shouts and screams, and
Then silence.
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
21
The two wondered women, mistress and maid, clung to one another,
Grooving
- Would not you Monsieur Armand warn?  To help us?  asked the countess
her maid.  Could it perhaps should be done??
- I dare not, 'said the cook;  I dare not go down.  And then... Monsieur Armand, with the carnival, sometimes not before eight o'clock in the morning at home.
It remained silent, silent.  There was sallow appearance of dawn through the persiennes.
Suddenly... a long time was called at the door of the apartment of the countess.
- Oh God, oh God!  wailed the Countess.  What is that??!
The women did not open, trembling from the fear.  The electricians cal call
continued, urgent, urgent.
- Who calls there??  early, before the closed door, the cook.
- I cried a soft child's voice.  I... Elsa!
It was the oldest girl, thirteen years.
- What is it, Elsa?  asked the countess, due to the close by.
- I'm afraid, madam!  Elsa pleaded with her fine voice.  And Willy is also
cries scared and Kätchen.  Because mom and aunt Dorothée do not sleep: they are
still at the drawing-room, and the door is ajar and the light is on, but we dare not go in, to ask mom and aunt Dorothée come anyway
sleep!  It's already so late and they come but do not sleep, and the business is already gone!  Ah, madam, gracious lady countess, we are so afraid, and it is already so late and mom and aunt come but do not sleep, and the business is already gone... and it is so
nasty... it's so nasty... oh, dear lady... because it is all red in the hallway!!
And we are so afraid, we are so scared!!
Horrified watched the two trembling women to another.  remained for the closed door
the little Elsa sue.  Curiosity overcame the horror of the countess and
of her maid.  She pushed away the barricade ran and opened the suitcase
door.  Elsa threw herself sobbing in the skirts of the countess.
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
22
- We are so afraid, we are so scared!!  repeated the child.
The countess, old maid, the stairs went down, led by the sobbing child.  To
the open door of the apartment of German women were the other two
children, blond and blond Willy Kätchen, and wept and sobbed too.
The maid, the Countess occurred within, as driven by her terror and
curiosity.  A greasy trail of blood smeared on the Office of the
corridor!
The maid, suddenly energetic, threw open the door of the salon ease.
- Oh... ooh!!  she cried, clutching the fingers up.
- Oh... oooh!!!!  shrilled the scream of the old countess, while the three children screaming in horror, screaming crying himself firmly krampten to her swooning
legs...
In the light illuminating salon, amid a chaos of broken glass, road
hurled champagne bottles and a shattered mirror, lay a
table, a couch, the two naked, mutilated bodies of gruwlijk Alwine and Dorothée.
They were probably slaughtered by two drunken butcher boys;  they were with
a broad knife split open in pools of blood, everywhere red plain along
curtains and carpet and furniture.  In the twisted mouths of both were women
Proppen gestouwd van hare verscheurde domino's.
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
23
Arnaldo Candido
On an autumn afternoon - I'm staying with my friend Orlando for a few days at his country house in Cecina - we are at the first drink in tall, antique marble fireplace, blazing fire blocks, tea, and I say:
- Orlando, tell me that.
Orlando smiles and replies, as he always does so in a case:
- What do you want me to tell you?
- I do not know, Orlando, I answer;  you can tell what you want.  But I'm not reflective of noon, and thereby have no desire to talk herself.  You should
So, - you hosting - keep me busy, and do me a story.
Orlando laughs, stroking his hand through his ravevlerk, stretches out his legs, smiling again, shrugs his shoulders and his eyebrows, and finally said:
- I Want to do the story of my uncle Arnaldo?  The story of my uncle
Arnaldo and his friend Candido1?
- Which is good!  I answer and carefully pour my second cup of tea and nibble at it brittle cookies, while Orlando throws wood on the fire...
To stabbing then launched into his story: the story of his uncle Arnaldo
and his friend Candido, which I command you, reader, to tell, but in my own
words because Orlando asserts that they are better than his, though his sonorous
1
Spreek uit candidate.
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
24
Italian, and sounding mine but the language of vochte, lowlands...
* * *
Uncle Arnaldo was in his sixties, tall, slim, graying, pleasant to look and
ways, and most pleasant in intercourse with his friends, which he every
Day met at Cercle and cafe.  Uncle Arnaldo therefore was loved by all his
friends, and even his children loved him, but he was separated from his
woman, at least they lived separately and they never saw each other.  Because Uncle Arnaldo
was against his children, a son and a daughter, and his numerous friends, never in some fatherly or friendly commitment came too short, but at his wife he came up short in many, if not in all, and his friends and  his children - his son Orazio was young lawyer and his daughter was right
married - thought that Dad just one error was committed in his life: that of a
to enter into marriage, because dad was from the beginning totally unsuitable for pozitie of faithful husband.  The small and great adventures
adventures of Uncle Arnaldo were also numerous;  his heart inflamed at least lucifertje that a woman look sideways thrust out and his senses were in flames, with every charming Eve, who passed, and for a moment, was higher than necessary,
trousseerde.  Was it so far, then uncle Arnaldo fatality followed the lateral view of the very slender and greated... rts!  Again there was a gash on his
marriage contract back cut, which mistreated document already fraying and
reepen hing.
Zoo Uncle Arnaldo, loving father, jovial friend and comrade,
Man-of-the-world in all respects, glittering with innumerable qualities, but
only hitting a sad figure as a husband, especially if faithful husband.  And his friend Candido, unfortunately, was though small, balding and put through coal black hair, like him, are morally if not whole physical image.  His friend Candido was also a
loving father - his son was a lieutenant in the Sardinian Grenadiers, Rome,
- A jovial camels
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
25
counsel and friend, a brilliant man-of-the-world and cercle mate, and thereby,
Unfortunately, as the uncle Arnaldo equally unfaithful husband of a lady who behind
koulissen remains of this story.
The two knew more mature, but still flammable, elegant viveurs and clubmen
then everyone on the"piazza,"as they say in Italian, and if they
Both the large and slim and graying, the other put and small, and carbon black, stood before Aragno or the cercle, on the sidewalk, to the custom of
Italiaansche gentlemen, they waved a greeting here incessantly hand, there
a flourish of his hat, and the every turn a jovial 'addio!' them, to jovial back smiling acquaintances and friends legion.
* * *
So matters stood when Candido uncle Arnaldo one morning for Aragno
bejegende with these words:
- Friend Arnaldo... you do not know what's happening to me?
- And what happens to you... friend Candido?
- Arnaldo... my wife is dead!
- Is your wife dead?!
- And it seems that she has forgiven me.  Because I inherit from her...
- The erft??
- Yes but...
- But what anyway, happy friend Candido?
- I yard of her money... but...
- But what??  Speak up!
- An operetta flock to Venice!  Yes, dear Arnaldo, but be so surprised if
you may!  I inherit from my wife an operetta flock to Venice!  She was rich, but her money let them out after me;  she lets me after her operetta troupe, which she, to amuse themselves, my dear fellow, was immediately rice!  Venice!!
- Was your wife... rice directly from an operetta troupe!
- She was rice directly from an operetta troupe!  Venice!  You've never known?
The fact is my legacy and prove it to you.  Dear Arnaldo, she has forgiven me and remember her
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
26
testament, but in the name of all the gods, what should I do with an operetta troupe in
Venice??
- Best Candido, Arnaldo said;  I did not know that you could inherit an operetta troupe!
- Neither do I, dear Arnaldo, but the notary assures me.  I inherit the impresa, the enterprise;  I inherit the right to be different operettas with my junk
perform, I inherit the assemblage scores, I inherit the musical instruments of the orchestra, i yard decorations, costumes and requizieten, and I inherit to fulfill the obligation, the contracts with the artists.
- En je Erft before de-woman?
- No, Arnaldo, I inherit fortunately not the prima-donna, because that is Elodia Gineschi and sixty years.
- La Gineschi?  But that is a famous aktrice!
- She, too, and she's still famous: they have a voice, still, as a trickle of pure water and a waist to span and she has a lot of talent, though she is sixty and she is still to  steal as the 'Duchino"(Le Petit Duc) or the' Vedova allegra"(the Merry band Widow).  But... she was sixty.  What the
fine-balle-rina is not: it is but a moment about twenty, and that is...
- The is?  early begeerig with fonkeloogen, Arnaldo.
- Artemisia Cherubini!
- La Cherubini!  Arnaldo shouted out.  But Candido, what a mess!  La Gineschi and
Cherubini la!!  But Candido, happy guy, what a mess, what a prime junk yard you!
- En de tenor is Carlo Manetti!
- Carlo Manetti!  But then I have also often heard and seen, and that is
a boy of talent!  Best Candido!  Best Candido!  And what are you gonna do with
You operetta troupe in Venice?
- Well, dear Arnaldo, I think I liquidate the whole lot!  And do hand
for a bargain at the first, the best, who has lust...
- Candido Do you like!  So to liquidate a prime gang for a bargain!  Since nothing comes from, you know, cried uncle Arnaldo.
- And what then, Arnaldo?  What do you want me to do with my legacy?
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
27
- Hear, Candido, I'll tell you what I want you to do with it!  Itself, with me, if I can help you, exploit you things and continue impresa!  If your wife has been directly of rice, to amuse themselves, why should we then together
directors shall not be of even to amuse us, if only for a few months?  What do you think of my plan, Arnaldo?  If we want once the train
to take Venice?
- Well, Arnaldo, Candido said;  the idea laughs it to me;  to vooreen joke -
un 'scherzo grazioso - things to exploit them for a while, but... there's my son, Dario.  See, that's an ambitious gentleman, an excellent well-regarded officer, and he wants to be not less than - in the future - Minister of War!
- Yes, Arnaldo said thoughtfully;  that's Orazio exactly like my son, now a
advokaatje young, but just as you boy very seriously, so seriously, best friend, as we never were or will be, and who cherishes ambitious dreams of
deputato and lofty political career... But, what if we first talked to our guys??
- And with the notary!  cried, already won, Candido out.  Come on, Arnaldo bowl
mead!  Dude, we will have a great fun!  Only, first with the boys
talk, hear, and too fond proposals they have not already!
* * *
Arnaldo and Candido, as two stiff, older gentlemen, hurried toward the notary.
And a bell here and a bell as the two sons Dario and Orazio were opgetelefoneerd.
-... It is a legacy, Dario... Orazio, it is a legacy!
In no time were the serious young at the office, at the notary,
together with their two playful father.  But the father did not frisky;  they did as a genuinely men-of-affairs.
- You see, Dario said Candido;  Now do things by hand, says that the notary too, would be a great loss to give us.  You know,
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
28
I was never agree with your mother, that she had pleasure in that operetta company;  We are decent people for such things, and you, of course, there never talked about with your fellow officers, but... now it's once so now we inherit the lot, dude... it's all about really do not  that whole mess, which perhaps a few
hundred thousand francs worth...
(The notary whom was promised a good supper at the Cercle, agreed that at
Full...)
- Make for perhaps ten thousand... Hand balls... why I thought
about it, Dario, I had to Really go just by what the impresa, until
We can sell the whole sant stall for a good sum... Look, do you have money
nevertheless also necessary, you want to create a chic military career...
- And... added Uncle Arnaldo now is to it, speaking to his son Orazio,
who already in his frock-coat looked like a minister, while his father a bit shy smiling standing before him in a joyous, English diamond, and, loose, with a carnation in the buttonhole;  Now I thought, Orazio, my friend Candido there to Venice, a little help, you see, with the impresa, because God dude, without
monitoring and control, they rob you, they steal from you... And I share with Candido in receipts... and that is you do too good... for your political career, you see...
- Yes, and Dario Orazio said, and they said it, another look at you income, almost
the same time:
- But would our fathers... or are serious enough, so for a job!
- You can be sure, though guys!  insured dad's solemn.
- If it is such weighty matters... Arnaldo went solemnly forth...
- And the career of our guys, Candido fell...
The boys were won, the notary supped that evening and delicious
titubeerde at four o'clock in the night between Arnaldo Candido and home...
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
29
And the two new operetta impresariï, Glunder income nod against each other, the next morning went to Venice to exploit honor the legacy.
* * *
Venice in the Fenice Theatre, has already rented by the deceased immediately rice,
waited the whole operetta troupe, with the maestro band director at the head, coming down from the heir.  And the heir Candido appeared paunchy
jovial and pleasant, smiling, man-of-the-world and man-of-the-cercle, with
beside him his friend Arnaldo, slim, graying, jovial and pleasant, smiling,
Man-of-the-world and man-of-the-cercle, and both hands and shared out here
komplimentjes out there, and all the members of the operetta troupe were delighted, so does the maestro, as Elodia Gineschi and Artemisia Cherubini and Manetti and Carlo
all, all the others... Sure, the company was put forth, the kontrakten
would be honored, and the Relâche nights that were there, were
no more than voegzame been mourning after the death of the rice immediately.
So would therefore tomorrow evening will be screened the Duchino again, and Elodia
Gineschi, sixty years, appeared as Petit Duc, while Arnaldo and Candido - skirt and white tie - de contrôle would form them.  And for the presentation, Arnaldo said to Elodia, tenderly:
- Elodia... you remember... five-and-twenty years ago?
- Certainly, Elodia smiled.  Certainly, signor Arnaldo.  Well, you're still the
same.
- And you, Elodia, you're épatant, with your fine voice and your fine figure in your transvestite from Duchino!
- Oh, caro amico, Elodia said;  I'm great mom, although I have talent and voice, and says my granddaughter, she's never so will I do if...
- And who is your granddaughter, Elodia?
- That's my little Duchessina, which is the small Elvira Titanetti.
- Ach, Elodia, Elodia ach!  Lachtal Lachtal Arnaldo en Elodia;  wat
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
30
scherzo grazioso is that!!  you play the Duchino and your granddaughter
Duchessina??
- Yes, yes, senza dubbio!  Elodia said;  and they both laughed, it was a kind, and the little Elvira just arrived, and Arnaldo made her a thousand komplimentjes that they deserved, but then a servant came to call him, on behalf of Signore
Candido, to still attend the contrôle;  since the signor it could not make alone.
Well, the contrôle received two posh gentlemen whole world chic
Venice, because the case had become known at once;  visitors flocking
Post - because really the most gang-was most excellent - and Arnaldo Candido and received prince and marquis who and which the Marquise and the princess, and the
were handshake and kiss on the hand and bending and joke over and over again, and all found
the most charming, cozy viveurs that two such as Arnaldo and Candido - known on the piazza, though!  - The impresa would continue.  The impresa deserved it.
The deceased directly Rice whim was to have a great troop, the costumes, decorations and requizieten were even an ordinary luxury, and
when grandmamma and granddaughter, duchino and Duchessina her couplets
detail learned there was a cheer and a: brava!  brava!!, and the performance was a great success.
And the receipts amounted to two-thousand-three-hundred-fifty francs.
- Now, Candido said;  that's two thousand francs for the Impresa and
Three-hundred-fifty francs to supper once at night.
* * *
Well, there was supped in the Cappello Nero;  there was supped with the àl
artists and musicians with all the gentlemen;  and Artemisia Cherubini, the ballerina1, sat next Candido and small Duches-1
There is good Italiaansche operetta troops becoming a ballet;  where no ballet music was written, is there than geïmprovizeerd but should be danced.
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
31
sina, Elvira Titanetti, sat next to Arnaldo, and the two gentlemen, still stiff and youthful for their paternal ages, ontvlamden as they used to ignite
for Schalke looks and slender ankles.  The cozy supper lasted up to two hours;  Elodia then stood up, and the others returned home, one after another,
grateful for the fun enjoyed.
And Impresa was operated successfully.  To the other night there was
presentation, and Elodia achieved triumphs in Mascot, in Vedova Allegra, not least in the Bella Elena, where they proudly her six crosses, was most charming, most charming and sang very naughty akteerde.  And there alternated the receipts
between two thousand five hundred and two thousand-seven hundred and
two thousand six hundred and Candido held round numbers, there was after all
performance, and cash withdrawal, put aside two thousand for the Impresa and was
the trifle of a rest slid into the rokvestzakjes Candido and Arnaldo, to snuggle, with all the artists and all the musicians to have supper at the Cappello Nero.
Well, the soupertjes became famous.  The orgy, small particles, which completely
Venice mouth was full of it, and the princes and marquis names are sometimes
participate in, and their ladies watertandden to also agree to be in... but thàt
did not happen.  The little orgy little soon lasted, instead of up to two hours to three hours, then four hours, then to five hours, and finally was there, after Bella Elena, a soupertje that lasted up to eight hours, and it was decided  with a quadrille of Candido and Artemisia and Arnaldo Elvira, on the table, among the empty
champagne-flesschen.
It was this orgietje - the exploitation of Impresa had lasted just two seasons-summer by the two jolly viveurs of round figures - which even the
fame resounds in Rome, to the serious ears of the prospective Minister
War and that of the deputato budding.  The two serious young-people
took counsel with one another, took the train and arrived in Venice, just
before the commencement of the Duchino.  they found
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
32
their fathers with the contrôle, gerokt, whited-dast, gewittebloemd, jovial, and stiff as ever, with perhaps only the eyelids some very tired.  The
fathers were very impressed by the sudden appearance of their boys.  After
the show - as always a success for Elodia and her granddaughter - the guys wanted absolutely inspection of books.  It appeared that the two thousand,
round number, covered the cost of every performance... but nothing more.
- But how, per Bacco, asked when Dario and Orazio;  the receipts every night
always thousand and never more or less?
The orgietje secret they were informed, and they looked at each other,
They joined hands and shake the serious heads and took their
decision.
Well, that night - the old men, really what seized by the
fatigues of Impresa, understood that it had to - it was last orgietje
celebrated.  Dario Orazio and sat down on either side of Elodia, and stayed
correkt and tidy.  The orgietje lasted until half past four, not later.  But Dario Orazio and were thus won by the gladdening tone that prevailed and the truly good or champagne from the worth of Cappello Nero's that they their sprightly
fathers vergunden repeat the famous quadrille among the empty bottles
Elvira and Artemisia...
It was the end of the impresa of the two gay gentlemen.  the next
tomorrow, for fifteen thousand francs, Candido sold his inheritance to an impresario of Milan.
And left Candido and Arnaldo, strongly held onto the arm by
their boys, who have seen their final sombreeren's career!  - To the station for the train to Rome to address, elated by all the artists and all the musicians who never forgot the charming soupertjes and small orgy gently offered by their impresariï after each performance at the Cappello Nero, in honor of
the round number.
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
33
* * *
Zoo ushered Orlando's story about his uncle Arnaldo and his friend Candido, both
Well known on the piazza in Rome and Venice, which story to my friend's sonorous Italiaansch really much amuzanter then ushered into my language of low and vochte countries...
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
34
The young king
I
The young King of Eretria was for his mother, which was in.  Behind the
Queen Mother, as well as in-a shriveled, shrank old grandmother on a
divan;  the two princesses were in deep mourning, the krippen veils from veiled heure heads off;  Mother was a very beautiful woman and even Grandmother,
shrinking in her attitude, always wrung his hands and moaned softly, smart
and half madness.  Due to the great departure, to and fro, walked, frowning the
blonde brauwen, the Kings Uncle paternal one forsche man
kolonelsuniform.
The young King was driving uniform;  He had just come back from his journey, and the queen mother, who anxiously, awaiting him, had embraced him with a sob
withheld, and then told him his morning now leaving.  And the young
King, with a movement of passion, his hat and riding crop thrown on a console, and he stood for his mother who was in.  The young king was barely twenty years.  He already showed a ge-inherited predisposition to obesity, but, to his youth, there was now only a circular line of plumpness to his cheeks,
and were in his pink, fresh face blue eyes soft and gentle, and
usually smiled the soft palate, upper lip shaven, with amiable,
sympathieken trek.
Now the young King did not smile.  Now his eyes sparkled almost tears
and the drift clutched him in his already plump
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
35
hands.  And he stood before his mother, who was after her emotion and fear, motionless in the high chair, the black crape crease folding her head against her
black robe.
- Well now!  then called the young king.  If it is so... let me give up!
I've had enough!  I'm done with it!
She did not answer.  Mother sat motionless, breathing again, because her son
alive before her stood unharmed;  in the sofa corner and groaned Grandmother
Always wrong, always, the hands and the prince, frowning, stopped not be nervous walk to and fro through the great room.  But the young King repeated:
- I'm done with it!  Then let me give up!  What will I remain their king
if they hate me!  If they hate me, as she hated my father and brother, they like dogs have shot on our side!  If they hate me, as she
we all hate you mother, your grandmother, you especially, Uncle!  What will I their king
remain, and what we will continue in this country!  Let me do away, let us go away!
Let us become too proud to continue to rule over those who hate us and shoot us like dogs, like dogs!  My father... he might have errors!  But my brother...
Mother had a gesture;  she clung, alleging her sorrow, hands as
imploring together;  the young King did not consider it in its violent disorder.
- My poor brother... he proceeded;  what mistakes he had?  What mistakes?  Like a
dog as a dog they shot him dead, shot at our
sides, besides Father also shot him dead;  in your arms, Mother!  Should I continue
going to rule over them?  I also hate them, I hate them, I can do nothing for them,
I hate this country, I really hate this country, this city, I hate all this...
He swung his arm and pointed to the broad white city on her azure sea that
blankte who blauwde in wide vista and panorama visible from the three arched windows of the hall.
The young King went on:
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
36
- I am young!  I want to live!  I want to enjoy life and be young.  I want to be myself and not a doll: a doll, whom they hate.  I want to ride a horse as I have pleasure without having to fear that behind a tree in the park there lurks that
aiming at me with his revolver to shoot me if they have my Father
done, and my poor brother... Do you hear, Mother, and you, Uncle, do you hear?  I want to be young and I want to live, and I want to get out of here, because I hate everything, everything here, and everyone, and I can do nothing for them, despite all my good will, proud of my wrinkles and sagging, proud of my studies to  late at night, and in spite of all our economy, which we hardly bestows to surround ourselves with the station of our dignity!  If they still want a republic, what will I then bending and bending and me appeared blocks, and are so efficient, I even a new pair of boots order while I think, that I've needed??
He stamped her foot now, with a glance at his boots, and then, calmer, he repeated:
- Have you heard the mother;  Uncle, do you hear me?  I want to give up.
I want to go away.
- It can not, Mother said.
Behind her, groaned and moaned Grandmother in the sofa corner, and its many
grinding voice cracked, broken into tears, repeated:
- It can not be, oh no, can not, Renato, it can not!
And the Prince, striking his nervous walk, said also cool:
- No, you can not.
- And why can not, cried, stamping his foot, the young King.  Why can not I
do not break the useless shackles that fetter me to no one's prosperity, to
no one's happiness against all their desires and wishes in?  Why should I
life, always thinking of danger, so I can never ever forget the terrible tragedy and a vision of blood always, always, here, here, see my eyes, my father, my brother, in their blood!!  It can, because I want it, I want out, I want out of here, I want to give up and away, and I will tell them, of challenge, now, once I
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
37
will tell the ministers...
- It can not be repeated Mother, soft and firm;  It can not, Renato, for
We can not give up everything, kids, everything we have, we already lost so much, so much!
- Oh, no, it can not, Renato kermlachte Grandmother in half madness
smart;  We lost all Grandfather, Father, and our Crown Prince;  but we'll still keep our country!  Our city!  Our palace!  Our power, our throne!
She suddenly rose up and cried
- We still want to retain our crown, Renato, our crown of Eretria We...
can still lose everything... Oh, no, I do not;  No, I do not, Renato, I do not want you to do away!!
And she fell down again in the sofa corner and sobbed softly and laughed;  she moaned and wrong, or they had very cold, hands.
Then the Prince:
- It can not Renato, because you should not be cowardly, and leave everything to us
belongs, what belongs to us, and what we can defend with our lives, with our
blood.
- Our life!  Our blood!
The young King burst into a shrill laugh and exclaimed:
- My blood that they spill like the blood of dogs!  My life, that they corner from behind a tree while I ride horses!  No, I will finally be free, I want to live my youth, free, free, and...
A chamberlain, pale, announced that the Ministers were at the palace and
Governor of the Re...
Mother rose up and seized the King's plump hand.
- Renato... I beg you!  she said;  Be wise!  Be wise... and strong!
Refrain you!  Persevere!!
Otherwise amiable smiling, weeke mouth drew bitter;  to be over
friendly blue eyes down the moisture...
And he hugged his mother with a sob... and no more sorrow to her
do...... he controlled himself and persevered...
And, between the Queen Mother and the Prince, he went to the Ministers,
who were waiting with the Governor.
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
38
II
It was months later.
The Palace was completely lit, for there would be a gala meal that evening in honor of the visit once lofty gasts: the Prezident of a South American
Republic.  But just at the moment when the young King, before the banquet, will clothe wanted his generals uniform - for him were on the table, in the open étuis his orders and sparkled like jewels star - sounded shots for the Palace.
King started and ran his valet.
And between a gallery, which guided the leave of Queens,
Worlds were cries and rushed into the dressing room of a child
Konings.
- Renato!  Renato!!  screamed the Queen Mother.
- Oh, Holy Mother of God!  groaned Grandmother.  It's done, it's done!
The mother, in her black velvet robe, why the black lace veils, the
bare neck overfonkeld of diamonds, clutching the boy king, who was still in his shirt, in her bare arms.  And Grandmother, at his feet, collapsed
a, and shrank as if she died of madness and fear, and she moaned tragi ash
higher:
- It is done!  It is done!!
Prince, uniformed, collapsed inside.
- They shoot!!  he cried.
In deed, from a warship in the harbor, now thundered the guns.
Through the galleries of the palace princes heard the flight of horrified
courtiers, servants.  There were shrill vrouwegillen, crude mannestemmen, there was
cursing, swearing, there were mainly wegdreunende, fleeing steps.
- It's the revolution!  cried the Prince out.  Come on, Renato, take your sword;  come with me;
there are our troops loyal;  it is only the navy, which...
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
39
- I'm not dressed, said the King.
He was in his shirt, uniform pants, and boots with lacquered, the bare arms of his mother, who, when silenced by fear, clutching himself with big eyes
to his chest until he could barely breathe...
Suddenly, in the open door of the gallery, published three lords.  They were correct in frock-coat and bowed.  The middle animal gentlemen said,
- We are the delegates of the Government of the Republic of the time being
Eretria.  The Republic is proclaimed the King had been revoked by the
government, and with him, so far ruling dynasty banished
at all times...
- Misery Lingen!  Ondànkbaren!  cry the Queen Mother, with her bare
jewel chest protecting her son, and Grandmother, at the King's feet,
begged:
- Do not kill him!  Do not kill him!  We only have his sake!
The King trembled, he said nothing.  The prince said nothing.
The delegate went on:
- The life of a king is safe and will be protected by a guard.  But
King must instantly leave the country.  There is a motor car behind in the park, at the back gate.  The royal yacht is finished in den Ouden Haven and is available to the royal family.  The royal family itself may go wherever she wants.  Her private property will be protected and hair
redirected to the address to choose.
- I'm not dressed, trembling repeated the King.
- Would you then instantly clothe, Your Majesty, the correct master said.  There is no time to lose.  The room must be without delay.  Otherwise it will do to protect the time being impotent Government, the lives of the royal family...
There was no one to help the king.  No chamberlain, no lackey.  Nobody.
Except this dressing room, seemed already left the immense palace.  Outside, on the harbor sounded cannon;  was also shot in the streets and there were Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
40
commandos by anguished cries over.
Prince, hasty, wanted to help the king.
- Your Highness, the delegation held against;  can not go in uniform.  She has to
verkleeden itself.  And as quickly as possible.
- O God, O God, O Holy Mother of God!  Queens cried.
They let loose the king and threw away, to pick up her robe.  The king,
a moment alone with the three men.  He trembled, seeking a collar.
When he found none, he hit with trembling fingers a silk girdle around his molligen, whites jongensnek.  One of the gentlemen kept him on his jacket.
- Thank you, King said kindly.
He grabbed a automobielpet he was finished, wrapped in a wide cloak.  Zoo
He waited a moment, the Queens and the Prince.
And he said, nervous, shaking, trembling, with weeping eyes:
- I am delighted that the Republic of Eretria has been declared.  I will finally not at every step have to be shot to fear death, like a dog.
I will finally be able to live again, for me, for myself...
The gentlemen, correctly, did not respond...
Shortly afterwards, the evening darkness of the palace park, the King fled the
Queens, Prince.  The fares of the car, threw the rear gate,
ghostly beams out.  Now the King sobbed wildly and Grandmother
cried, stumbling behind the others, stumbling over her slip:
- It is done!  It is done!  It's everything, done everything!
III
It was a few months later.
Young, dethroned King of Eretria stood at a high open window, which looked
the gold-leafed herfstprachten of an English park.  Green, velvety
lawns stretched out
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
41
for the king's eye and cream blonde damhertjes grazed in the grassy drop.
A single white statue blankte with a pitched just below the swirling leaves...
The young king wore a white tennis serge suit.  discovered his soft collar
molligen, white guys neck and a broad, yellow leather belt surrounded him
are slim waist.  He looked fresh, rosy, young and elegant: he had all his racket in his hand, and he would play tennis with his cousins, the children of one.  just as he did.  dethroned monarch with whom he was staying, now that the Queen Mother had not yet decided where to settle, to wear her grief, bereavement and
disillusionment.
But the young King lingered... and as he looked over the magnificent park, filled his friendly blue eyes with great, great tears.  A wave of homesickness swelled in his heart.  a wave of nostalgia for... Eretria, to his country,
homeland... that he did not hate, which he loved, love had nothing in the world... and he would never Keeren.  A longing for his people, whose language he never
more would hear, because to him no one spoke more languages.  A longing for
his palace in the rezidentie to his summer castles out... What was here all small, cramped, scary, miserable around him!  What he lacked greatness here,
grandeur, splendor, eerbewijzingen;  what he lacked this power, if only there was a semblance of power!  Oh, how he missed here at this beautiful English mansion much... much... everything... everything... what was his life... what more there was his life would be;  o what he missed... his majesty!  What he lacked here royal power - a delusion -;  What he missed his crown here: a symbol!  What
he was here now humiliated, trampled, chased away, shown the door, and with a modern correctness of modern Republi-kein cal ways, it
infuriated, raging impotence, furious despair, furious silent
despair... because he... suddenly... irrefutable, seemed that everything... he had lost everything, and inevitably, what value could have given his life, too
all true that everything has become no more than a symphony
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
42
bool and a delusion: that which, tragi ash, all his life and evenboortigen
breathe because they are not unlike thàt can feel in their poor, golden blood...
His weeke, lovable mouth quivered bitterly;  his friendly blue eyes
rolled the great tears on his chubby cheeks boys.
- I did indeed want to be free!  he thought bitterly.  They do not have me shot like a dog!  I'm free, I'm independent!  I can live!  Come, let us go play tennis...
And he went, now humming and waving his racket.
And the wave of melancholy, which swelled did in his heart to the pain, the young King regretted that he did not, before his palace in the night of the Revolution, either, sword in hand, was killed in the defense of his divine  rights... either death
was shot like a dog.
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
43
When I was a little boy...
In useless reveries, which, like the light, the landscape and the atmosphere of the room are good, belong to my greatest pleasures, is above all a very
useless reminisce and dream back to the longest past years, when I
was a little boy.  I do not know why this is, and why the back-see
The strange blurring of past years, to the first, that I am joyful, so great temptation exercises that I shirk difficult it can me in
violets few cal and goudasschige twilights of zuiderzonsondergangen in
doezelfluweelen the eclipses of a room, where the first fire yet
blazed and the first autumn chill already shudders.  Because importance of back-see not;  there is nothing to see important;  no romantiesch incident turns it on, and the joys and sorrows belong to much later times.  And yet my gaze
rotating eyes in, and weaves it into dusk disinterested early years and
blackout a melancholy which was very simple: the first living things
a child who does not yet know itself, and begin to already leaving, looking for what he will be.
I was a quiet, solitary child, and it amazes me now that I was so.  I was the youngest of a large family, noisy and crowded about me, and I myself was quiet and introverted, but not sad or very rarely, because there is usually a smile was soft in me as a spark, which steadily glimpte.  I was a week, soft child;  my
sisters were all women - at least, I saw them so;  my brothers were big boys
- At least, I found them very big, and I myself, very down among them, could not help but week
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
44
are soft, although I was not suppressed.  My father always remained something far from me, but my mother was very sweet: I was at her like a chick beneath the wings of the hen, I was safe and warm in her, and I had her very sweet, because I was sure that  they always make everything would protect me.  Because I was afraid, I was a frightened child, I was afraid of dark stairs, I was afraid of bearded men, I was afraid
for murderers and to tigers especially, and I was getting very afraid of ghosts.
For all that, I was certain, that my mother protecting me would be, but I was not always at her, I was playing in the children's room, and the nurse was adjusting to the window, and although they were friendly, I wanted sometimes to  my mother.
And it's strange, but I've always kept that desire, and sometimes I wish
even to my mother, and when she died, and I was already a man and married, it has been to me, as if disappeared protection of my life.
Now I found it to be nice sometimes afraid, and made me stories of tigers
and murderers, very large tigers and bearded killers;  the latter especially
stadige were my fears and I still remember the kilkoude shiver that overcame me when my niece - now my wife - asked me once, when she a small, pale, blond girl, much younger than me:
- What are you more afraid of, say...... thieves or murderers??
Then I, from the bottom of my heart trembling, stammered:
- Oh... for killers... because... that make you dead!
That fear is not stuck with me.  I can, for fear of my wife, evening
wander into neighborhoods in Italiaansche cities, to the romantic of those areas, and I am afraid nor thieves, nor even for murderers and I have never had a
revolver at me, because I fear could it be to shoot someone dead mead.
Afraid of death I was.  And once, I almost saw the dead, I am so
shocked that I will never forget it.  We lived in The Hague, on the
Mauritskade, of the need, die when
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
45
the feeding Nassaulaan;  it was winter, the canal was frozen and dropped a strider, while I was sitting at the window to put on my socks - white socks with red stripes - through the ice, under the bridge and became lifeless, fainted in all
CASES, put out... From my window I saw pale, wet corpse, with flabby arms, and druipharen and toeë eyes, and thought it so terrible, that I, a wick on, stumbled to my mother, stairs  off, according to the salon, and her
shot burst into uncontrollable sobbing... terrified and kilkoud because I den
Death had seen!
Boyfriends I had little, I usually played alone.  I played all kinds of games, where the larger brothers and sisters not understood - it was rubbish, why they
laughed - but for me it was all something;  and I gathered for my play
strangest things: fashion plates, gold and silver cans of Chen wine bottle, glass pieces, rags tarlatan the ball dresses of my sisters, dia-balloons, and pawns of siege games, all of whom were men and had names.
And with that stuff - it was rubbish in deed - I built my first novels
, which were mainly through terrible robbers and murderers abducted beautiful
ladies: the novel was mostly off very sad, and at night I cried for it, in my bed.
I was a very pious child.  While we at home were not devout, I had quite a
Child's gotten, and Adam and Eve in Paradise, oh I found it beautiful;  Abel and Cain, the Tower of Babel and Noah, made great impression on me: God found
I terribly big and wonderful, and so strictly, to be afraid... God had to fear!  - And I feared him, almost more than the murderers...
While - I find very strange that now - not Jesus spoke to me and I, when I read it, my first question was aware, and thought he never existed... they tell only what is in that book.
I was a very pious child.  We did not go to church, but I had an aunt,
who went, and I thought she was right.  And I had
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
46
myself learned a prayer that I evening without fail opzeide for me
went to sleep: the beginning was:
We honor his head to bed bow,
Where our military is spread,
We want our gratitude
To express the good God
For blessing us prepared...
And I finished this prayer-in-verse prose with the line:
Lord, save me for the Black Art!
Because had the nurse and the maid spoken in my presence the
Black Art and the Artist, by incantation, suddenly the windows in a house
About the jump could open his Áll unexpectedly... and I had so
horrible found, though I said nothing, I prayed God to me for months
to keep the Dark Arts.
But now the time came, that my first novel not only thought but also
wrote.  It was a story two pages in blue gekaft booklet and
told of a knight in Constantinople, whose palace burned and whose treasure was rescued from his coffers by marrying a monkey.  I had the whole story just invented, and was very proud that it was read in the family circle.  My second literary aptitude - I was eight years - was a description of Eskimos, more documented and less invented, and had little success in the sense,"they smear themselves with grease, wash never, and smell terrible..." began my sister
loudly roar, no I took her ill and very unmotivated found:
my fiasco, however, made me, after the success of the knight of Constantinople, so painful that I did not write more in years...
Great fantasies went into me.  Some Biblical names, like Babylon, the
Farao's van Egypte, of Nebuchadnezzar,
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
47
Semiramis called me a mysterious disorder of fame on: something,
as if a voice within me cried: you see?  there it is again... and my sister, who had fantazie me, made me a han gene the garden - oh, a hanging garden!
These were, in a corner of the children's room, on stairs of peat, with water
medicijnfleschjes filled, and it stung flowers... but rest assured that
The terraces were mysterious for me and exotiesch blossoming trees.
Remember you, Trudy?
So it was, when my brother Frans, imagine into working with me, me
gave ten names to a letter of precious stones.  I knew there not ten, I knew just brilliant, diamond and pearl... but he told me that was not a pearl gemstone that brilliant and diamond were the same stone and it was he who completed the list, and taught me  :
Ruby red;  emerald green;  turquoise, sky blue;  sapphire, indigo;  topaz, yellow and rosy;  amethyst, violet;  chryzoliet, golden stone;  chryzopraas, yellow-green;  beryl, brown gold...
I heard those names before the first, but I suddenly saw all these stones sparkle;  it was as if I was there earlier, across former times, had possessed in great storehouses, and since I've always loved jewels, they have a great fascination exerted on me, something magiesch 'and occultistiesch', something magical power having antique splendor;  jewels, for me, are not cold, but have a look and a soul as good as flowers, how else but lifeless they are me, formatting and the list since my brother had never been: the sparkle of their names sound was life,
and when I then saw for the first time, was a mysterious shudder through me, and I dreamed at night of treasures.
And why those things had now greater sorcery to me than others,
I do not know, but I know that was a giraffe the only beast that same condition of antique tooverpracht exerted on me, and I in the Zoo getting very long in the long gehalsde could see square flattened giraffe, with that same feeling  still know me, you see?  There you have it again for...
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
48
the beast that tooverbeest... from the past!
Now I say this all too narrow and too specific: it was not so;  it was only a moment something that shot through me, something of an odor and a color and
sound... once it was gone, and now I only know that it was, as I tell you.
That's always true, with childhood memories.  I was nine years old when I was born in Holland, went to India, and beyond me I only know what I, Java, drew, and I missed it...
Now, I love Italy, now I know what I did, child of ten years, missed in India...
I loved that the sun was shining.  The sun, oh it was something improper,
something hidden in Holland, even in summer the sun shone!  Staâge but the sun,
that there was something divine!  A child does not suffer from the heat and I, I worshiped the sun.
The sun had me as a divinity.  The sun in the blue sky seemed to me God himself
to his view at least!  The sun was a god, and the moon was his wife!
But now that I love Italy, I know that, although the Indies me to the enchanted sun, although the Indies gave me back the South, which I was mysteriously banished, I
in India missed the Latin south, and now I know why then, in India, a
oleander was dear to me than a tropischen flamboyant (Tree with crimson
flowers).
There was something to the child of ten years in India what it lacked,
but it was not: there was not the memory of temples and gods, to
palaces and sepulchres deposited endless ways to arenas, parades and
ceremonies...
There was the sun, and it was the South, but the South without emotion and
without memory, and yet I was the child of parents in India.
Now only I know, perfect for childhood lucky to have been able to live perfectly happy boyhood, I was then ten years old, had been to Italy
must go, and not to India, even though the sun shone.
Yet there was in India for me something good: I felt there me if
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
49
a small green embryo, maturing;  there swelled something in me, and the smile that always glimpte in my little soul, was slightly brighter, joy of life.
I found our home more beautiful than in The Hague, because it was larger and garden
was very big and there were flowering oleanders.  A 'Oleander'... it told me something.
I found it nice, because I got a Bendie and a horse.  I liked the school is happy, the play because the hours were very long - even in a very big garden -
and because I got pocket money, and a Chinese, quietly sold in an opening of the hedge, scrumptious cookies, white balls full Javanese sugar.
I found me a mister at once, because I was white trousers, lacquered
wore shoes in the evening, and mead was allowed visits to the opera and children's balls.
But most of all I liked the school very nice: a whole world for me yet
the Dutch school recalled, and because it struck me at once something that was not in Holland, and I understood having to conceal at home, there never having to
speak, not even my mother.  Life went there before me;  the boys, me, when I arrived, were getting very stupid, taught me the secrets and
the wise never among the great men, saying words, and all were,
either love little girls, either whole swagger with the babu's home to their mothers or sisters, or else they had friends at school, very intimate friends.  All this together made me the impression that the life opened up to me whether I realized very life, if only the lives of boys and girls, children:
actually much more interesting than the lives of great and old people, I thought.
I understood that I had to be careful at home, nothing had to notice many things, what I already knew;  although there were things I did not understand well.
A great emotion at school was me, when we were taught mythology.
For nothing has taught me, so I have an enchanted emotion known as when the Olymp opened for me and I saw all these gods and goddesses.  I thought it was something
glorious, listened attentively, wrote everything down, was in a fever to all those sudden beauty.
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
50
My father interfered more with me.  We learned in school French, and German,
and dad felt crazy and he wanted to learn English.  He then took a novel, I
do not know who: Agincourt, called the book an historical story, and let me read once, teaching me the pronunciation and grammar in every word.  It was very different than at school, but I read of English within a week, and within
a few months I read fluently any English books.  My father had an incredibly quick way to teach something;  later he taught me so Latin and Greek, but he had forgotten his Greek lot, I've never really known Greek
and never read.
Five years passed my school and boys living in Batavia, when I went with my
parents back to Holland.  And I hated it in Holland.  I believe that every child Indiesch coming to Holland, to find it so.  The smaller house,
the hole of a garden, no cars and no horses;  I no longer Bendie and horse;  two girls and a servant instead of thirty servants, I thought it was terrible, did not understand, thought that my parents were ruined and did not believe that this was not the case.  And the school, the Hoogere-Burgerschool!  The boys had a smell to me at all: I found that they were not performing ablutions, and
passioneele dramas were no longer there was no mention of women,
they were not in love with girls, and no one had an intimate friend.  I saw with
scorn them all down upon, she found"children", and very dull and boring.  It was at that time that the glimpse extinguished in my soul until much later that spark hergloeid.  I learned very poorly in school, until I finally took private lessons with Dr.  Ten Brink: lessons that I will always remember me, lessons that all the beauty of literature and art began to open up for me...
But those are not the memories of the first years, the first, the
young child-years, all the soft and teederen blossom shooting of the first
jeugdigheden that me joyful, where I, quite useless, think back and dream in the empty hours as the fluweeldoezel dark ones go in my room, or, as in the dimly-Louis Couperus, The swallows perched down upon...
51
ring of southern sunset, over there in the West a wistful ashes
of gold goes down seven of the few cal heavens, fading as fields
violets are.
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
52
Kindersouvenirs
Outside blowing a violent mistral, the rabid North Wind our south, a wind,
who gets through the chimneys and shaking the windows... the weather is to stay close to the fire, and I drink tea with my wife and say,
- I hope that no one will disturb us... We are so cozy, too
dreams, with the wind.  With such cold weather; at this time, I always think back to my childhood...
- I also, quite frequently thick... my wife says.
We are cousins ​​and have known each other like children: we have
played together, we danced together at children's balls, we still have our children's portraits: she, a marquise-toiletje, a marquisetje eight years,
gepoeierd with a beauty spot on the cheek;  I, as a page, and I remember the package that my sisters had made me black velvet with yellow satin Creve and I was very proud of the first transvestite.
- Tell me, I say;  tell me Deli...
- Oh, my wife says, and she shudders, hands just for the face.  Those three
s Deli in... I will never forget them.  I was ten, thirteen years old when we left.  I've had so romantically childhood, I really do not necessary
had read books of Gustave Aimard... it was like a book of Gustave
Aimard... Dad had become administrator... the first tobacco company... He
there was already a year beforehand gone, and then we came back: Mom with us
children, I the oldest, and a governess... Dad had built a big house, perched on piles of wood - the other houses were of bamboo,
Louis Couperus, The swallows perched...
53
and the house was a kind of spit in the river, with water on all sides.  Since around the barns, the fields, and around us the forest, the mystery,
the desolation... Even though it was pressure for us, the supervisors, the minders,
three hundred coolies were... Between those three hundred coolies, we some
Europeans abandoned... Close by, on the river, lived an eccentric, a
